Well, I'm going to night school . I'm going to finish my B.A . this winter.
I always liked these when I was a little girl ,
Oh my yes, didn't you ,
Do you remember혰?
And do you remember혰!
Heavens, yes ,
Don't I, though.
Did Frank call?
Oh, give him time, Mother ,
It's only ten o'clock.
was up at five and Eileen and I got up at eight . I know this is your vacation, Jeannine, but in the country혰
I did get up at eight ,
I did . I walked around the lake . I don't know why you keep telling me how late I get up; that may have been true a long time ago but it's certainly not true now, and I resent your saying so.
Well, I keep forgetting ,
Your silly old mother! Bud says I wouldn't remember my head if it wasn't screwed on.
Darling, have you ever had any thoughts about혰
I'm going to do the dishes.
Oh, no ,
My goodness, don't . I don't mind.
Going to make a phone call ,
Here's Frank . Frank, it's Jeannine Dadier.
Oh my, it's you; I didn't know you were there ,
Oh, I just called to tell your mother something ,
Silly Sally went to town! Silly Sally flew a-r-o-o-und!
I thought you'd already gone ,
Oh, I love tennis ,
Cal, come get me.
Okay, baby ,
You know that question you keep asking, sweetheart? Well, the answer is Yes.
What is it, darling?
Mother, I'm getting married!
Wait 'til Bro hears about this!
Mother, I'm going to have a baby.
My little baby!
Me, too, pretty please?
yes, okay, go on
Usually one of us runs away ,
Friend? Friend?
Tell Jeannine about it ,
Then tell us about the Zdubakovs ,
You're a vicious little beast!
Oh come on, giraffe ,
You are a damned vicious cublet ,
I'll tell you something to sweeten your disposition . Do you want to hear about the three-legged goat who skipped off to the North Pole?
Well, well, Elena, you shouldn't take a vacation without notifying your friends.
Friends? Don't lie to me, girl . You read my letter ,
What letter? Nobody found a letter.
The cow ate it ,
Shoot me . I don't believe you're there but my body believes; I believe that my tissues believe in the bullet that you do not believe in yourself, and that will kill me.
what cow? You Zdubakovs don't keep cows . You're vegetable-and-goat people, I believe . Quit joking with me, Elena . Come back; you went botanizing and lost your way, that's all.
