Does it matter?
This war, that war, isn't there always one?
Well, hell ,
the war . If there isn't one, there just was one, and if there wasn't one, there soon will be one . Eh? The war between Us and Them . We're playing it rather cool just now because it's hard to work up an enthusiasm for something forty years old.
Us and Them?
I'll tell you ,
Oh, don't worry!
But it will get things moving . The long war will start up again . We will be in the middle of it and I— who have always been in the middle of it—will get some decent support from my people at last.
Who, who, for Heaven's sake! Who's Us, who's Them? Do you expect us to find out by telepathy!
I beg your pardon ,
I mean the men and the women.
What did she talk to you about?
She asked me if I had ever killed anybody.
Can't have them looking at you ,
Hey, hey ,
So you're back again!
Well, sure, why not?
I have to meet someone . I have some business to do.
Don't you want some of the real thing? Come on, fuck business!
Don't you dream about it? Don't all you girls dream about us?
You know that, Lenny ,
Sure I do ,
Sure . I can see it in your face whenever you come here . You get excited just looking at it . Like the doctors say, we can do it with each other but you can't because you don't have nothing to do it with, do you? So you don't get any.
you got us figured out just right . Scout's honor . I've got business to do.
Oh, you're a brick!
you surely are . Why, you're so strong, some day you're going to squash us to death.
We're friends ,
Some day you're gonna walk right in here—
Of course we're friends ,
Of course we are . That's why I don't want to talk to you tonight . Hell, I don't want to get you in trouble . See those crosses? One jab, one little rip or tear, and those girls will start an epidemic you won't be able to stop for a month . Do you want to be mixed up in that? Now you know we women are into plague research; well, these are some of the experiments . I'm taking them across Manland to another part of our own place; it's a short-cut . I wouldn't take them through here except I have some business to do here tonight . We're developing a faster immunization process . I'd tell all your friends to stay away from this table, too, if I were you—not that we can't take care of ourselves and / don't worry; I'm immune to this particular strain— but I don't want to see you take the rap for it . You've done a lot for me in the past and I'm grateful . I'm very grateful . You'd get it in the neck, you know . And you might get plague, too, there's always that . Okay?
You are being a little obvious ,
and I doubt that the power of the blood—
Oh, you're lovely ,
come with me.
You have any children?
that we were going to talk business . I'd like to do just that . I don't mean— that is, I don't want to be unsociable, but time's passing and I'd rather not discuss my personal life.
You're on my turf, you'll Goddamn well talk about what I Goddamn well talk about.
It's not really very interesting ,
You kids screw each other?
Don't get me wrong . I think you have a right to do it . I never bought this stuff about women alone having no sex . It's not in human nature . Now, do you?
That's right, cover up . Mind, I'm not condemning you . It's only to be expected . Eh! If we'd kept together, men and women, none of this would have happened . Right?
I expect you have more intelligence than most of those bitches or you wouldn't be in this job . Right? Now it's obvious to anyone that we need each other . Even in separate camps we still have to trade, you still have to have the babies, things haven't changed that much . Now what I have in mind is an experimental project, a pilot project, you might say, in trying to get the two sides back together . Not all at once—
Not all at once ,
but a little bit at a time . We have to make haste deliberately . Right?
I knew you'd see it ,
You saw my wife?
Natalie's grand ,
She's a grand girl . She made these . Deep-fried, I think.
you like the idea, right?
The aversive therapy, for Chrissakes, the pilot group . Social relations, getting back together . I'm not like some of the mossbacks around here, you know, I don't go for this inferior-superior business; I believe in equality . If we get back together, it has to be on that basis . Equals.
