That's from my third duel ,
silly . Well, it's not Sweden, not really . You've heard of me; I was on the television . I'm the emissary from Whileaway.
Ssh, don't tell anyone.
This line I got in my third duel; this one—it's practically gone—in my second . Not bad, hey?
Are you sure you don't mean fencing?
Hell, no ,
I told you, duel.
What do you fight about—girls?
You are kidding me ,
We fight about bad temper—what else? Temperamental incompatibility . Not that it's so common as it used to be but if you can't stand her and she can't stand you, what's to be done?
Well, goodbye.
That—well, I suppose that's rather savage, isn't it?
I beg pardon . You will think badly of us . Understand, I have put all that behind me now; I am an adult; I have a family . We hope to be friends, yes?
You're a great chick ,
Some day we'll get together . Don't duel with me, though.
Yeah, you'll tell me all about yourself ,
You can meet the kids.
I have a daughter ,
Baby brat Yuriko.
We got homemade wine . Vegetable garden . Sara puts things up . Great place.
Tell me, what do you do? I mean for a living?
Whileaway is not here-and-now ,
You might not understand . I settle family quarrels; I look after people; it's—
She's a cop . She puts people in jail.
Get on your Goddamn coat, will you!
So long, hey! Hey, so long!
Po' little me! I sho'ly needs to be liberated!
So you do like it!
I would suhtinly like ,
to see all those women athletes from the Olympics compete with all those men athletes; I don't imagine any of these women athletes could even come neah the men.
But American women are so unusual ,
Your conquering energy, dear lady, all this world-wide American efficiency! What do you dear ladies use it for?
Why, to conquer the men!
In mah baby brain ,
a suhtin conviction is beginnin' to fo'm.
The conviction that somebody is being insulted?
Let's go ,
Oh, you don't want to go!
But I do ,
Of course you don't ,
You're just beginning to enjoy yourself . The party's warming up . Here ,
let me get you another.
What do you think of the new feminism, eh?
Well, what do you think of women? Do you think women can compete with men?
I don't know any men.
Ha ha ha! Ha ha!
My name's Ewing . What's yours?
Well, Janet, I'll tell you what I think of the new feminism . I think it's a mistake . A very bad mistake.
I haven't got anything against women's intelligence ,
Some of my colleagues are women . It's not women's intelligence . It's women's psychology . Eh?
