What you've got to remember ,
is that most women are liberated right now . They like what they're doing . They do it because they like it.
Not only that, you gals are going about it the wrong way.
You can't challenge men in their own fields ,
Now nobody can be more in favor of women getting their rights than I am . Do you want to sit down? Let's . As I said, I'm all in favor of it . Adds a decorative touch to the office, eh? Ha ha! Ha ha ha! Unequal pay is a disgrace . But you've got to remember, Janet, that women have certain physical limitations.
How true! How true!
you have to take into account that there are more than two thousand rapes in New York City alone in every particular year . I'm not saying of course that that's a good thing, but you have to take it into account . Men are physically stronger than women, you know.
Of course, Janet ,
you're not one of those—uh—extremists . Those extremists don't take these things into account, do they? Of course not! Mind you, I'm not defending unequal pay but we have to take these things into account . Don't we? By the way, I make twenty thousand a year . Ha! Ha ha ha!
What did you say?
You're a good conversationalist ,
Janet—uh—Janet, I wonder if you—
You're beautiful, honey.
Thank you . I go now.
Nah, you're not going.
Let me go ,
Give us a good-bye kiss ,
What'sa matter, you some kinda prude?
Let go, ————- ,
Ha ha, make me ,
Make me, make me ,
Is this human courting?
Is this friendship? Is this politeness?
Masculine, brute, virile, powerful, good.
Right on, sister ,
Goddamn cancerous castrator!
Thinks hers is gold!
You didn't have to do that!
Joanna, these are insults, yes?
YOU STUPID BROAD, I'M GONNA CREAM YOU!
Don't pull like that ,
You'll break your arm.
But why do you want to fight when you do not know how?
Why'd you do it?
He called me a baby.
Real Fight With Girl
I don't think you're going to be happy here.
Throw them both away, love ,
finer spiritual needs.
And everything's so small ,
we would all become contented slobs, nicht war?
it's murder if it's sneaky or if she doesn't want to fight . So you yell 'Olaf!' and when she turns around, then—
we would become so happy we would sit down on our fat, pretty behinds and soon we would start starving, nyet?
If not me or mine ,
If us and ours—watch out!
Janet, he's a Man!
Can I go now?
At least she's White ,
Hully gee, Mildred, you waxed the floor!
How true!!!!
