I stopped dreaming (this world) and awoke
I came from God (Brahman) and will eventually return ,
I am part of Brahman now and have always been ,
they reckon ill who leave me out/when me they fly I am the wings ,
when me they fly ,
and I the hymn the Brahman sings.
... with leafy wings they flew.
Brahman is the Creator, preserver, or transformer and reabsorber of everything . Brahman causes the universe and all beings to emanate from itself, transforms itself into the universe, or assumes its appearance.
God is the sole cause of his own modification, the emanation, existence and absorption of the universe.
The universe is considered a real transformation of Brahman, whose 'body' consists of the conscious souls in everything unconscious in their subtle states.
Brahman transforms itself into the universe or assumes its appearance.
this is the way it is; this is so.
the Buddha is in the Park
Jon's world.
two alternative presents branching off from a critical nexus or previous point in time, and which of them becomes real depends on some act or event back in the past
what happened in 3-74?
The weak ascend.
direct rise from obscurity and lowliness to power and influence.
that which pushes upwards does not come back.
one pushes upward by steps ,
one achieves one's will completely.
throwing of the uncut stone
Santa Sophia will be born again
it can (does) transform itself into the universe; or it can assume the form of the universe.
Originally there were real phenomenal objects, but there is a steady creeping replacement of them by the mimicking alive it—it steadily, stealthily replaces them and mimics—assumes—their form.
break a stick and there is Jesus
the shy God.
As long as you're going that direction, take this along, too.
the universe is alive
He who causes to be
Kingdom of his son
all it can do is arrange things.
the will of God.
It (Zebra) not only mimics the things of this world it also imitates the processes
he is not here.
Noös arranges everything for the best.
Russell at one stage in his career spoke of the world as consisting of events—Whitehead made the notion of process central in his metaphysics.
It is wrong to conclude the existence of a creator rather than an architect...furthermore it infers that the being in question has unlimited powers, when all that the evidence seems to warrant is that its powers are very great.
the description of a God who has an unchanging essence but who completes himself in an advancing experience.
It has been said that the Greeks thought of the world as a vast animal.
Hegel saw human history as a vast dialectical movement toward the realization of freedom . The reality of history, he held, is spirit, and the story of religion is the process by which spirit—true to its own internal logical character and following the dialectical pattern of thesis, antithesis, and synthesis (the reconciliation of the tension of opposite positions in a new unity that forms the basis of a further tension [i.e., the new synthesis generates its own opposite] —comes to full consciousness of itself . Individual religions thus represent stages in a process of evolution (i.e., progressive steps in the unfolding of spirit) directed toward the great goal at which all history aims.
You have this mechanism, it is now urgently needed, and here is how you use it—here's what it's for—here is what you do with it
next stage of man ,
If a person travels with two others there will be sus picion ,
no man has seen God.
I have seen God and He is like this ,
Maladaptive Biological Reaction System
not objectively real.
latent form master of evident [i.e., left hem .] form.
We see the universe backward.
