I...am.
the basis of reality is irrational
Mitleids Hochste Macht ,
You are not the doubter; you are the doubt (itself )
This is a road to me, as are all roads if pursued to the end.
God is everywhere . In the music . The cat ,
yea, I am with you even unto the end.
Chains...Web.
it will destroy him
thrown into the alien world
a perturbation of the reality field ,
All Cretans are liars.
this is the best of all possible worlds
Where is the kingdom of God
two slit indeterminate phenomenon
as a principle of selection of the good in the world order.
A total system that perpetually chooses through a binary process of rejection that is cumulative
not this but rather that ,
Nicht diese töne; sondern...,
Not that; (but rather) this.
lost his vision.
Realities are subject to cancellation without notice
the light went out
a perturbation in the reality field.
He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed.
we are selves in a brain that both makes and perceives reality
binary switching com puter
info that we hypostatize as world
as it really is
We are all but cells in a colossal mad brain that both makes and perceives reality
God is the final bulwark against non-being
... against isolation.
I know God exists because I experienced/perceived him in 3-74
I know that God exists because I believe I experienced You above and beyond myself; and I know of no way that I can go beyond Descartes' 'cogito ergo sum' by my own power; on my own I cannot add any knowledge to that self-knowledge . Yet I believe I know of Your existence, so I conclude that some agency with the power to disclose Your existence to me and thus to compel my assent to that disclosure exists, and I can only conceive of God as possessing the power, since, pragmatically, this is cosmogenesis, and I define God as 'he who causes to exist what exists . '
I know that I believe, and since I know that I cannot compel into existence my own belief, I conclude that something beyond myself exists that has compelled this belief; therefore I not only know that I exist, I know that something beyond myself exists (by reason of my belief).
the secret stolen past the angels in one's hands
book within a book.
Christ invading the world
fool in Christ ,
reaching across to the living Christ
evasion equals time; Dasein equals space
Better to rule in hell than to serve in heaven
For thousands of years it slumbered
throughout all this [the first age or half of the book] Siddhartha slept [but now he awakes].
worked over by 1,000s of thinkers for 1,000s of years
perturbation in the reality field
This is the Medieval World View ,
No! This is what it aimed at.
Better a live dog than a dead lion.
Beyond Lies the Wub
