Let there be....
Your ancestors ate manna in the wilderness and they are all dead ,
I am the bread of eternal life.
There are people who possess secret information.
of man's first disobedience and his fall from that celestial state...,
In Anfang der die Tat
Now Christ has no body but your own.
The physical universe is plastic in the face of mind.
Perturbations in the reality field
The God has granted me his voice, to hear it, to speak it.
variation from the normal.
... by some force additional to that which causes its regular motion
Perturbations in a planet's orbit have often given clues to the existence of previously undiscovered planets; e.g., Neptune and Pluto.
Perturbation . Method for solving a math problem by comparing it with a similar one for which the solution is known . Usually the solution found in this way is only approximate.
A field in physics may be defined as a continuous distribution of some observable quantity in space and time.
Something outside of reality
undiscovered body in bodies
A continuous distribution of some observable quantity in space and time.
The Electric Ant.
Words control reality ,
God is looking for balking as a criterion.
It tells it what to do next
the world is evil
the world is irreal
it is wrong ethically to collude with the deceitful and fake.
spark of Brahman in each of us
You [i.e., the surface PKD personality] and the alibi are both equally expendable.
I go to A.D. 45 Rome when I die
Here we are.
But where are we really?
the Earth is hollow and I have touched the sky.
both being expendable.
he who gives up his life will save it ,
Men like to sleep.
A world capable of splitting its per ceived reality into countless counterfeits of itself
used by the early Christians.
If you can identify y, why can't you identify y?
But are you writing something serious?
and may they be happy.
Let them all play again, in some other way, and let them be happy.
The punishment was far too great.
This has been a novel about some people who were punished entirely too much for what they did . They wanted to have a good time— ,
they punish you and they kill even spotless God who couldn't be in any way sinful—and that is wrong.
punishment must end.
Guilty but not wrong.
and gained from heaven a friend.
he sees even the fallen sparrow
as the sentience in the cosmos which understands.
Now all the creatures rejoice.
St. Sophia will be reborn again ...
