based on an actual incident.
based on an actual incident.
from a former life.
from the other side.
The bichlorides are a very poisonous poison for you ,
a very poisonous poison ,
She will see the sea.
Theological dispute was the disease of that age ,
Portuguese States of America ,
The other side.
Ich hab' kein Retter ,
Ja, Ja, es gibt ein Retter ,
my entire memory ,
That was a wrong turn ,
When those people decided on Christianity . I'll throw away 2,000 years, go back, have this one—he'll get it going right; he's typical—turn to some other religion instead, and have that become dominant . Let's see....
... the sick were given wholesome advice in their dreams ,
What's on your mind, Phil?
Asklepios is my tutor, from out of Periclean Athens . I'm learning to talk in Attic Greek.
Within the degenerate molecules, the trash of today, he (PKD) resurrects a power buried for eons.
Thinking with the Blood ,
Dead Sea Scrolls.
A rich man is a thief ,
Would you like some?
He is seen to be eating eggs ,
You must put your slippers on/To walk toward the dawn ,
I guess I'm going to have to listen to some of her prophetic couplets.
... they cast lots and Zeus got heaven, Poseidon the sea and Hades the underworld.
lower floors, with darkness outside, as with the basement level ,
strands which must not be broken ,
which you can't get right now because it's not available.
a superior race from Outer Space, Immortal and All-Knowing, Who Guide Us
you have to put your slippers on/To walk toward the Dawn ,
You have to put your slippers on
You must not have cold feet ,
Don't be scared; you must not be scared or you can't walk toward the Dawn ,
moving toward enlightenment ,
They're disclosing the Mysteries to you ,
The Elysian Mysteries.
I am in your world and you are in mine
What a marvelous entity has taken me over ,
Look at what he can see that I never could.
born of water and spirit ,
born from the womb ,
What is that? It certainly is beautiful ,
This is a sign used by the early Christians ,
abstracts much like the modern painters have reproduced ,
Time of Restoration of All Things
Maybe God's gone away, forgetting His promise He made that day: and we're lost out here in the stars.
I have conquered the world ,
Hark! I tell you a sacred secret: we shall not all sleep in death ,
