... was to confer divine life sacramentally on its initiates so that they might attain immortality through regeneration and reincarnation, thereby freeing the soul from its fleshly bondage.
an eye, with a pupil.
the sum is greater than the whole of its parts ,
the universe gains energy ,
By our wrong way time, fairly soon.
Then we must relive our recent past?
Yes, we will move backward into it, but perhaps at quite a different rate; we might move more rapidly than we advanced, I mean, retreated through it.
People would stop dying?
Oh yes—the entropic process, cooling, aging, wearing out, degeneration—all that would cease . Once we picked up time momentum the other way—we might overcome the Accidental-thrust time . Think of a person blown literally from his garage when his hot water heater explodes . In an instant he is in the next field . His rate of return to the scene is much slower . In our universe, the force of Accidental thrust time is weakening; we have no way to ascertain what the 'correct' rate would be going the other way, before this Accident took place . We are presently living within two opposite thrusts, working against each other, like two tides . Think, though, how slowly time moves for a child, especially a baby . Time is weak now but we might abruptly lock; this accidental wrong might suddenly stabilize.
Like the Bible says? Time will suddenly cease?
Sounds like the same thing.
It is possible ,
that under regular process-conditions there is no time as we know it, lineal time, either way . We may find ourselves back in what we call our past without any interval; there may be no reverse lineal time, because lineal time is solely a result of the Accident, and once overcome—
Not backward lineal time, in its place, but timelessness?
I think we will see the damages overcome, when it is stabilized . Either we will lock into timelessness, then begin lineal reversal, which I conceive as natural—
Or we may find ourselves jumped back 2,000 years.
What Dead Men Say.
But what about dinosaur bones and all fossils?
he was taken over by Dionysus thus lifting him outside time and space ,
Honey, I am so stoned you would not believe it . I love you.
Then you must be.
Ask me questions . My unconscious is accessible.
Why did you have the experiences last March?
I had nothing else to do.
What deity or force or presence took you over?
'Erasmus .' Who the hell—
I feel earassabiele, Tom said ,
I feel as if my ear hurts and I need to see a proctologist ,
Who or what is/was Christ?
The style we are drawn in ,
There is a person seated for artists to draw him; they have a 1.50 minute time limit on their work . All draw him a little differently, all must finish fast and turn it in . Their work is crude, and each has a bit of the subject in it . Our world is that composite work of many artists, and we are those crude drawings with the minute and a half time limit . We do as well as we can, but it's like Disneyland where they do that, various portrait artists with one subject—or if they all had the same subject . It is like Disneyland—fast and not very expert, and still the subject sits and we approximate him . Someone else does the approximating; we are not the artists but the drawings . Hence Plato's concept of the cave and of the idea archetypes.
Is there reincarnation?
I am he.
In the past? In a former life?
I am always Erasmus . I always will be . I was Dr. Jonson, once, later . But always Erasmus.
It takes place because it's easier.
Then there is a soul?
Always I was ugly ,
In Tears, the man waiting to be killed inside the wooden house in the dream at the end...it's a rat . I saw my father kill an animal, come to kill it . The old man on horseback who says Taverner must die, he's my father.
A or not A ,
He's got a pun within a pun . 'Ir leg' could be like 'ir' meaning 'unreal' and 'leg' from the Latin 'in-lego ,' or 'not gathered or brought together' (we changed 'in' to 'ir'). So 'ir leg' could be a pun on the ear-ass meaning, 'When you get to the bottom you will find that I haven't brought you together, you and Erasmus . '
The False Light ,
This spirit is wearing me out . Killing me by exhausting me.
Well, he's saying, You should have more fun . Ol' Erasmus sure was a prankster . He sure liked number games.
That's why he's bubbling over with mirth ,
That I've figured out who he is, at last . He is so into puzzles and riddles and puns—he's laughing.
He's an astrologer.
You take all these scholarly things too seriously; you should have fun ...
In Praise of Folly
what is within or below
