layers to come in the future.
The Woods of Arcady
Yet still she turns her restless head.
Will they ever come to me ever again ...
Do this in recollection of me ,
How does your car obtain the capacity it has to perform all that it does?
By putting in this particular key, the one with the square end, and turning it to the right for a second.
What are they for?
do this in anamnesis of me—
You can't take it with you
untroubled by men, amidst the shadowy green/The little things of the forest live unseen
The whole is greater than the sum of its parts ,
Long ago I lived forever . I knew everything and could not die, and I was perfection itself . But somehow something went wrong, I forgot, I'm down here.
I am changed.
Look! I tell you a sacred secret . We shall not all fall asleep [i.e., lie fallow in the idios kosmos, in ignorance]; but we shall all be changed, in an instant ,
Talk of the Town
That was my friend.
What sort of universe is it that causes a man like Tony Boucher to die of cancer?
I got Tiana Lemnitz records and Gerhard Husch ,
They are my idols.
I feel tired half the day ,
I can't work as much as I used to . I think I'm sick.
Maybe it's because when Tony reads your story it's like he's reading it in Latin ,
We'll be back to get the people pretty soon.
But garbagemen don't eat people ,
Roog, Roog ,
Tremens factos sum ego, et timeo ,
I was stupefied to learn that my car had been towed away.
Where do you get your ideas, Mr . Beethoven?
Let's feed this through Beethoven ,
That way it'll come out very good indeed.
Play it again, Sam ,
'Play it again, Sam '
You know, when our work is done, we go to a lovely green field where we play and do not do any work, and are fed and healthy ,
When we're through working here we just disappear . We go nowhere.
I am the person they have the file on.
This cannot exist; it cannot exist.
wheel spinning time ,
I shot an arrow into the air
Our souls, having traveled out to the stars, are now streaming back, to report that life exists, that they exist, and hence so do we.
Once we understand how to make time dense at will, then we will be able to communicate information telepathically at will.
we woke up from our dream and began to see reality, i.e., the plan or logos.
the spirit of truth which knows all from the Father
Logos, the Word of God ,
We need medical assistance ,
We need medical attention
nothing has changed after all.
The Lord of Hosts shall suddenly come to his temple ,
At least to me.
Christ lag in Todesbanden ,
