Neither shall they say, 'Lo here!' or, 'Lo there! '
for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
look within, look within ,
an immortal god, no longer a mortal, held in honor by all.
the words written on my heart were in the letter for me to read.
lying in the road ,
quiver all over with the movements of gnosis
I think it's all the same thing, one found inner, one found outer.
Faith of Our Fathers ,
altered states of consciousness
The intuitive—I might say, gestalting—method by which I operate has a tendency to cause me to 'see' the whole thing at once . Evidently there is a certain historical validation to this method; Mozart, to name one particular craftsman, operated this way . The problem for him was simply to set it down . If he lived long enough he did so; if not, then not.... my work consists of getting down that which exists in my mind; my method up to now has been to develop notes of progressively greater completeness—but not complexity, if you see what I mean . The idea is there in the first jotting-down; it never changes—it only emerges by stages and degrees
was a trap, frankly by the KGB.
Chains of Air, Web of Aether
For it is the same thing to think and to be.
But he [God] is equal in all directions to himself and altogether eternal, a rounded sphere enjoying a circular solitude.
All creatures are one pure nothing . I do not say they are a little something, but that they are pure nothing.
you are God.
will have to derive from what I saw
you are the authority.
that attempts to act as an all-encompassing, all-explaining hypothesis about what the universe is about
manifestation of paranoia.
this is a gloss in the text for' I love you . '
at odds with what is apparent.
I see the crystal visions.
divine 'abyss . '
God wanted...all things to be reconciled through [Christ] and for him, everything in heaven and everything on earth, when he made peace by his death on the cross.
I Understand Philip K . Dick.
the ultimate surrealism...is to [take] somebody that you knew, whose life ambition was to sell the largest television set that the store carried, and put him in a future utopia or dystopia, and pit him against this dystopia.
mystery of conjunction ,
coincidence of opposites ,
I know only one thing about my novels . In them, again and again, this minor man asserts himself in all his hasty, sweaty strength...against the universal rubble.
initial living info bit
'Swarm of Bees' brain.
Here my son, time turns into space.
Tractates Cryptica Scriptura ,
god in the gutter ,
Here, my son, time turns into space.
I ask, not, 'What is true?' but, 'What modulations shall I imprint on the stuff around me? '
wheel of dharma.
the map is not the territory ,
comes not to destroy but to fulfill the law
For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven
We must suffer, suffer into truth.
what oneself has writ.
Consciousness without an object is.
Consciousness without an object
we are a way for the cosmos to know itself.
an event in the reality field
Suppose...time is round ,
much heat but little light.
