This is my blood (and body).
The history of Christianity is salvation by faith and good works, to faith (Luther) to inner divine illumination (the Quakers).
And the possibility of the Holy Spirit coming from heaven to enlighten and ennoble the individual soul to perceive and feel this inner light, to welcome its guidance, was to the Quaker the essence of religion . If a man followed that light he needed no preacher or priest, and no church . The light was superior to human reason, even to the Holy Bible itself, for it was the direct voice of God to the soul.
As I was walking in the fields, the Lord said unto me: 'Thy name is written in the lamb's book of life, which was before the foundation of the world . '
Plenary override exists.
Absolute, complete, perfect.
more important than I am.
it is to your advantage that I go...,
not of this world, in it but not of it.
Floating Crap Game.
Who is part of the brain?
Where is the brain?
the Gospel of the spirit ,
The Kingdom of God
A bit of living information from which grows the entire corpus of knowledge
coordination to the divine psyche
Us in Christ and Christ in us
burned like chaff ,
Latent form is the Master of obvious form ,
Christianity vs . Rome.
Is a fake fake real?
out A's A ,
A′ is A reinterpreted.
the final bulwark against non being ,
mere surface material of Tears
For the very desperate ,
The Masks of Medusa
cause to be.
There's something (or someone) else living inside my head, and he's not living in this century.
Because the Holy Spirit was a living being for him, it is for me.
someone else inside my head ,
he is (right now) not living in this century.
not living in this century ,
living in another century.
Bright white light shining in the night to guide your way.
there's someone else inside my head and he's not living in this century
Inside my head.
He's not living in this century.
One day the masks will come off, and you will understand all.
It will take (i.e., require) the appearance of noble men.
reveals the true state of affairs
there is someone else in my head and he is not living in this century.
where should you most expect to find God?
in the least likely place.
in point of fact you therefore cannot find God at all; he must—will—find you, and when and where you least expect it
piling trash upon trash
one day nothing new ever entered his mind—and the last thought just recirculated endlessly.
the Buddha is in the Park
it's fanciful.
the microcosm containing the archetypes of all ideas.
