What she was doing ,
You see, under field conditions, nobody can handle all the eventualities . We're not superhuman, any of us, nicht wahr? So you take someone you can spare . It's like this—
Oh, you're so wonderful!
AIN'T IT AWFUL
You women are lucky you don't have to go out and go to work.
Do you want something to drink?
Scotch, punch, rum-and-coke, rum, ginger-ale?
What's that?
that is what kind of drug? Excuse me . My English isn't good.
It is made from grain, yes? Food? Potatoes? My, my! How wasteful!
Why do you say that?
to use food for fermentation is wasteful, yes? I should think so! That's cultivation, fertilizer, sprays, harvesting, et cetera . Then you lose a good deal of the carbohydrates in the actual process . I should think you would grow cannabis, which my friend tells me you already have, and give the grains to those starving people.
You know, you're charming ,
You told me you people had cannabis ,
It isn't cured properly; it'll make you choke ,
It's horrible!
Sip it, sip it ,
I don't want it.
I tell you what ,
Janet, if you—
But I don't like it ,
Sorry, I will wait for the smokes.
Come on now, I can't believe that; you made me get it for you—
It's very hard not having anything, though ,
I suppose, love, that I'm hardly giving anything away if I say that I don't like your friends.
They're not my friends, for God's sake . I come here to meet people.
I come here to meet men ,
Janet, sit down.
Oh . How do you do?
No . Do you want a drink?
All right, don't have a drink . And you're—
Why do you people catabolize foodstuffs in this way?
I'm not an alcohol head; that's not my bag . I agree with you . I'd just as soon see people eating the stuff.
Yes . Aha.
We have a saying: when the child goes to the school, both mother and child howl; the child because it is going to be separated from the mother and the mother because she has to go back to work.
The tie between mother and child is very important ,
Excuse me, let me move that cushion behind your back.
I'm sure Swedish mothers really groove on their kids, though ,
some time I want you to meet my wife . I know this is a bad scene—I mean meeting you here with the plastic people, y'know? —but some day you're going to come out to Vermont and meet my wife . It's a great, heavy scene . We've got six kids.
Six you take care of?
They're in Vermont right now . But after this work hassle is over I'm going back . You grok?
it's been great meeting you . You're a real ballsy chick . I mean you're a woman.
Sorry about the slang; I mean you're a fine person . It's a pleasure—to—know—you.
You don't know me ,
Yeah, I know ,
How can we get to know each other in ten minutes, huh? That's true . It's a formal phrase: pleasuretoknowyou.
Tell you what, give me your name and address.
I'll drop you a line . Write a letter, that is.
Oh, that!
Oh, that!
