... where, amid the shadowy green/the little things of the forest live unseen.
It's because Tess isn't here; she kept the time right.
The Lost Voices of the Gods ,
voices of the Gods
Did the right side of the brain produce divine speech?
The Oracles of Delphi
the Brain Revolution.
He [man] became 'bicameral': the left side of the brain for speech, and the right hemisphere produced the inner commands . Eventually, the voices were attributed to kings and Gods.
best guess: man was somehow jolted into awareness (!) by social chaos . Vast migration, invasion and natural catastrophes drove the wedge of consciousness between God and man . Man became modern.
Even so, newly conscious man tried desperately to reawaken the silent Gods, turning to oracles, seers ,
In the OT the voices of Yahweh and prophets grow silent, replaced by subjective men wrestling with unanswered questions.
command by the God
you hear nothing and do not know that you do as we say.
'Roog' to Scanner
It is alive.
the man contains—not the boy—but the former man ,
Faith of Our Fathers ,
Look! I am building a new heaven and a new earth, and the memory of the former things ...
[ those who are] conscious.
it's really 70 A.D.!
it was decades later
punched out computer tape
a chicken is an egg's way of producing another egg ,
new heavens and new earth
which will never enter the mind nor come up into the heart
Even the trees agree.
Faith of Our Fathers ,
that which is actually in control
all is murked over ,
Man and God in essence belong together against the world but are in fact separated by the world, which in the Gnostic view is the alienating, divisive agency
an alienating, divisive agency that separates man from God
dissolving-away of the world
a sacerdotal power buried in the gutter or rubbish for aeons has been resurrected
Where did you (I) get the idea?
They tell you how, when and where to throw the spear, but you must throw it.
going through life with eyes closed.
embedded within the inferior bulk.
St. Sophia is going to be born again; she was not acceptable before.
hand in a steel trap ,
falling into forgetfulness and ignorance
other slice of bread ,
Love is the life and joy and heart of the system . Love is its boundless energy, its soul . And the voluntary force drawing its elements together into a happy krasis, where it is more fun to dance than to think, better to play than to talk . If I am right, it is laughing right now, at my abstract model, or at least smiling . I sure hope so.
Contacts of the 3rd kind
we are not alone
born from above by the spirit
this is a gloss in the text for' I love you . '
I love you.
gloss in the text meaning' I love you . '
What is the secret message which Zebra has inserted into my writing?
man's lost freedom.
