[ Using Tears] he sent out one signal.
and through all this time, ➊ Siddhartha slept.
And all the while, [underneath ,] Siddhartha slept.
The empire never ended.
The satellite—Valis—fires information down to them?
It does more than that, it controls them . It can override them.
Did you notice the pot?
On Brady's desk . The little clay pot—like the one you have, Fat.
I didn't.
I didn't the first time I saw the film ,
The pot shows up several times . It shows up in different places . In the Lamptons' home—in the living room.
And once on Ferris Fremount's desk ,
It also appears as a pitcher . Full of water . On the parched field, when the film opens . Off to one side—you only notice it subliminally, a woman is dipping it into a creek.
It seemed to me that the Christian fish sign appeared on it once ,
I thought so the first time . This time I looked closer . You know what it is? The double helix DNA molecule . In the form of a repeated design.
DNA memory . Gene-pool memory.
At the creek when she fills the pitcher there's a man fishing . It flashes just for an instant . But it's there.
The early Christians—the real ones can make you do anything they want you to do . And see—or not see—anything . That's what I got out of the picture.
But they're dead.
Yeah . If you believe in the reality of time.
Will it be Christ?
It is a 5th savior ,
Here time turns into space.
that the anguish of the one (over the death of the female twin) pervades the cosmos to its meanest level, but will be turned to joy when hyperuniverse I divides
universe is (like a) woman in birth pangs whose suffering now later will turn to joy
Summary . (etc.—v . tractate )
The Empire never ended.
Latent form is the master of obvious form.
There is only one rational reality: God inside us and outside, all else is irrational.
the time you've waited for has come.
Transubstantiation is a miracle of the present . Not of the past.
I produced the vortex (Zebra )
I can talk; she (sic) can talk to me.
Then I ought to preach or teach what was revealed to me
kingdom of the spirit
Zebra was me reaching out.
perturbation in the reality field
What is Ubik?
here, my son, time changes into space
a perturbation in the reality field, a vortex
Maybe we're in a biosphere
supra-lunar or upper realm
What is (esse)?
God ordained motion but ordained no rest.
I do undermine the old, capitalist, bourgeois society! with my null-null A and silly putty reality!
hostile world and its power
who or what fed me back my books ,
I am he which causes to be . I am what I am.
One mind there is; but under it two principles contend.
up by his bootstraps
