The secret stolen, in one's hands, through the angels.
After knowing about ——— ,
The time you've waited for has come . The work is completed . The final world is here . He has been transplanted and is alive.
in one's hands
He has been transplanted and is alive
the imperial church ,
The time you've waited for has come . The final world is here . The work is completed . He has been transplanted and is alive.
The harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful.
How can the many become the One?
The whole of him hears; the whole of him sees; the whole of him thinks; he is everywhere at once.
Ravished away and full of God ,
Reality is what you see it as ,
Is what you perceive it to be
because he is not a musician ,
the permanent world of unchange behind the flux ,
Deus sive natura sive substantia
ultimate substance turns out to be a dramatic story that shows up in print as a tracing, the underlying reality being a series of events.
The secret stolen in one's hands through➊ the angels.
that would not frighten even a child ,
There is a prison
and it is under attack by the Christians, by Christ Himself.
Who is the information for?
l have found it.
If you press world hard enough it yields up God
I define God as world under the threat of death...God forced into the open, and put to work in the service of evading death.
from the other side
Nothing is real . Going through life with eyes closed.
God does not work through the is.
These two spatiotemporal continua resemble each other
They are one and the same, expressed at two places and two times.
One plus one equals two ,
One apple plus one apple equals two apples . One table plus one table equals two tables.
When I played my recording of the Mahler eighth last night the performance was a lot better than when I played that recording last week.
a miracle performed by the grace of God, by divine providence ,
I am a Christian
the great reversal ,
The Tao, as the Absolute.
The Tao is what lets him first the light, then the dark
Faith of...,
a perturbation in the reality field.
Ti to on?
We can be heroes for just one day ,
The Savior is a crushed beer can in the alley.
Ubik is true.
the reality field.
Ti to on?
Why is there something instead of nothing?
Why does Heidegger think there is something instead of nothing?
Would he be additional substantial/material trace bits?
No, as a tug, a perturbation—the iron filings and magnetic field perturbation
