A place for the powerless to get help.
obsolete or foreign word needed to be explained.
I love you.
prince of this world
We can never know for sure, and even if we were right we wouldn't know it.
One God there is, in no way like mortal creatures either in bodily form or in the thought of his mind
The whole of him sees, the whole of him thinks, the whole of him hears
He stays always motionless in the same place; it is not fitting that he should move about now this way, now that
But, effortlessly, he wields all things by the thought of his mind
To forge out of torment the rough-hewn shape.
One of the most human documents they have ever read.
Its concern for people.
and she shall see the sea.
die to our self
from the other side
the stone rejected by the builder
St. Elmo's fire
Let there be light ,
where is our God (deus absconditus)? where can he be found?
who is there?
Look, I am here—no, there . Look, I am this—no that
Christ as child, little old man, bearded youth, tall, short, etc.
St. Elmo's fire
There's something wrong, but not in terms of what, but rather in what is lacking: a spiritual quality has gone out—our material wealth does not quench our yearnings.
responsible for low-level decisions which can be overruled.
He reserves this disclosure—step (3) in particular—or fusion for those in the extremity of desperation and peril.
At the absolute core of misery is the greatest joy.
the dark domain of the irrational powers
set the world spinning
It's always present being overruled by di vine reason
Garbage in, garbage out ,
Its discourse is always true.
The Kingdom of God
to explain evil, and to find for men some scheme in which they may accept it, if not with good cheer, then with peace of mind—this is the task most religions have attempted to fulfill . Since the real problem of life is not suffering but undeserved suffering ...
Tat Tvam Asi.
the very desperate ,
they're all out of it
Time is an infinitely old child playing at draughts.
That which is above is in that which is below.
The macrocosm is within the microcosm.
City of the World
as that which, when you withdraw assent from it, it does not disappear.
darling creature, the first created and most loved by God
Wisdom of Solomon.
To empty hell ,
Which is the real creator, the 'still small voice' or the booming, threatening one who can curse the land with plagues and blights—i.e., has mekkis?
Come, let us reason together.
staring us in the face all the time
The Godhead is in difficulty . Evil is not the manifestation of an evil deity nor a sign of God's vengeance, etc., but an analog in the lower or microcosm of the difficulty in the macrocosm or pleroma . The yin aspect has exceeded its proper limits, perhaps as an oscillation of a great supratemporal cycle, and rectification is already in progress.
The answer is blowing in the wind.
