It has to be on the basis of equality! I believe that . And don't think the man in the street can't be sold on it, propaganda to the contrary . We're brought up on this nonsense of woman's place and woman's nature when we don't even have women around to study . What do we know! I'm not any less masculine because I've done woman's work; does it take less intelligence to handle an operation like the nurseries and training camps than it does to figure the logistics of War Games? Hell, no! Not if you do it rationally and efficiently; business is business.
Do you think it'll work?
Of course, of course ,
you're not a diplomat, but we have to work through the men we have, don't we? Individual man can accomplish ends where Mass-man fails . Eh?
is a world in which everybody can be himself . Him . Self . Not this insane forcing of temperaments . Freedom . Freedom for all . I admire you . Yes, let me say that I do indeed, and most frankly, admire you . You've broken through all that . Of course most women will not be able to do that— in fact, most women—given the choice—will hardly choose to give up domesticity altogether or even
even choose to spend much of their lives in the market-place or the factory . Most women will continue to choose the conservative caretaking of childhood, the formation of beautiful human relationships, and the care and service of others . Servants . Of . The . Race . Why should we sneer at that? And if we find there are certain traits connected with sex, like homemaking, like reasoning power, like certain temperamental factors, well of course there will be, but why derogate one sex or the other on that account? People
people are as they are . If—
Damn your business!
Your business isn't worth two cents compared with what I'm talking about!
Of course not, of course not ,
I should hope so!
That's the trouble with you women, you can't see anything in the abstract!
Don't you appreciate what I'm trying to do for you?
Don't you have any idea how important this is?
This could make history!
Of course, we have a tradition to uphold.
—we'll have to go slowly . One thing at a time.
We'll have to find out what's practicable . This may be—uh—visionary . It may be in advance of its time.
We can't force people against their inclinations and we have generations of conditioning to overcome . Perhaps in a decade—
—perhaps never . But men of good will—
—and women, too, of course, you understand that the word 'men' includes the word 'women'; it's only usage—
—and not really important . You might even say
but I want you to go back to your people and tell them—
—that we're prepared to negotiate . But it can't be official . You must understand that I face considerable opposition . And most women—not, you, of course; you're different—well, most women aren't used to thinking a thing through like this . They can't do it systematically . Say, you don't mind my saying that about 'most women ,' do you?
That's right ,
don't take it personally . Don't get feminine on me ,
We're friends?
Tell me, do you like my place?
Ever see anything like it before?
The paintings are pretty good . We're having a kind of Renaissance lately . How's art among the ladies, huh?
you must've been different from the start—from a little girl, eh? —doing a job like this . You've got to admit we have one thing up on you—we don't try to force everybody into the same role . Oh no . We don't keep a man out of the kitchen if that's what he really wants.
Now you do ,
You're more reactionary than we are . You won't let women lead the domestic life . You want to make everyone alike . That's not what I visualize.
Oh, I couldn't ,
So you like me a little, huh?
Hell, go away ,
Sure you do!
Kiss me, you dear little bitch ,
Take your filthy hands off me ,
Send them away ,
send them away! Natalie can do them ,
I want to be perfectly clear . I don't want your revolting lovemaking . I'm here to do business and relay any reasonable message to my superiors . I'm not here to play games . Cut it out.
You're a woman ,
you're a beautiful woman . You've got a hole down there . You're a beautiful woman . You've got real, round tits and you've got a beautiful ass . You want me . It doesn't matter what you say . You're a woman, aren't you? This is the crown of your life . This is what God made you for . I'm going to fuck you . I'm going to screw you until you can't stand up . You want it . You want to be mastered . Natalie wants to be mastered . All you women, you're all women, you're sirens, you're beautiful, you're waiting for me, waiting for a man, waiting for me to stick it in, waiting for me, me, me.
OPEN YOUR EYES!
BEFORE I KILL YOU!
I'm glad to be rid of him, the old bastard?
Come on, come on!
You did it because you had your period . Bad girl.
You all right?
