Now, really, what are you waiting for?
Here's Eileen married, and here's your mother with two children, and all your old school friends, and enough couples here around the lake to fill it up if they all jumped into it at once; do you think you're any different? Fancy Jeannine! Refined Jeannine! What do you think you're waiting for?
For a man ,
Come on, Jeannie . We're going to introduce you to someone.
What are you doing here? Who are you?
Keep a civil tongue in your mouth, young lady!
Oh, Bro!
You oughtn't to be out here alone ,
It looks as if you're not enjoying yourself . Mother went to great trouble to get that extra ticket, you know.
I just wanted to see the moon.
Well, you've seen it ,
You've been out here for fifteen minutes . I ought to tell you, Jeannie, Eileen and Mother and I have been talking about you and we all think that you've got to do something with your life . You can't just go on drifting like this . You're not twenty any more, you know.
Of course I want to have a good time ,
Then come inside and have one.
You might meet someone, if that's what you want to do, and you say that's what you want.
Then act like it, for Heaven's sake . If you don't do it soon, you may not have another chance . Now come on.
Well, who shall I marry?
I have to tell you something, Jeannine.
I'm married ,
but my wife and I are separated . She's living with her mother in California . She's emotionally disturbed.
I knew you'd understand ,
I knew you'd understand, Jeannie.
Are you busy tonight?
I thought—I thought you might want to go to the play.
You ought to wear sunglasses ,
Yes, Bud and Eileen were going . Would you like to join us?
Don't! We'll fall in!
What time shall I pick you up?
Charley's Aunt.
Well, Jeannine ,
if you don't like reality and human nature, I don't know what else you can have ,
Stop it, Jeannie ,
What's the matter with you?
Why, it's you, darling ,
What do you want out of life, Eileen? Tell me!
what should I want? I want just what I've got.
Jeannie wants to know what life is all about ,
What do you think, Frank? Do you have any words of wisdom for us?
I think that you are all awful ,
Well now, I don't know ,
Do you think ,
that you could know what you wanted, only after a while—I mean, they don't mean to do it, but life—people—people could confuse things?
I know what I want ,
I want to go home and take the baby from Mama . Okay, honey?
I don't mean—
Oh, Jeannie!
Oh, Jeannie!
Want a drink?
I want to know ,
what you want out of life and I'm not moving until you tell me.
