the obvious (and deceptive) solidity of the world like a soldering gun . It's one hierarchical step up from matter both animate and inanimate: it's an element unknown to us but suspected by Heraclitus (fire
My novels and stories have never presented it, but they have done yeoman work in depicting reality—not as it is to us—but as it is to Zebra: totally soap bubble
[ 28:28] The cardinal mystery is, who is projecting or weaving reality—which I caught not just weaving but reweaving . I believe the pre-Socratics (cf . Xenophanes) grasped it—that which wields or steers or shakes by its mind, as such . If it is noös, then the physical (empirical or phenomenal) universe is irreal; if psyche it is soma (cf . Spinoza). My writing suggests noös (or Brahman, who either is the universe, or assumes the disguise of—ach!). That is closest: the universe is as mask to visage, layer upon layer . A.D. 70 was a deeper layer but not the final one . The final one is probably the abyss: totally not . Is is a disguise which is not
Right—I said to KW last night ,
[ 28:34] Hypnagogic: (they are )
For the first time in months the spirit speaks to me . This sentence—remembered because the phone woke me—refers to 3-74 and (short as it is) it explains it . Admittedly, the they
[ 28:35] I suppose this overruling to be staggering in its impact and implication, its irruption into the horizontal
( 2) but in (2) he is absolutely dwarfed by what he sees . This is well-expressed in
38 Suddenly the ratio is dramatically reversed . The next step is for the amazed man to learn that he is, incredibly, isomorphic with this vast sentient world
( 3) In other words, God is larger than man but congruent with him; we are identical; whereas in (1) this is not the case: man and low-level reality are not isomorphic and in point of fact man is the crown of creation and stands above it . Imagine his stupefaction when (1) turns into (2) —but then, before man expires from terror at this switch of ratio, (3) is disclosed to him, by God, who desires to reassure . In this process, step (1) initiates as its goal, not (2) but (3); were it to end in (2), man would collapse, being confronted, so to speak, by rocks and stones wiser than he! This is why it is (correctly) said that the ultimate—and real—purpose of a miracle is not to accomplish the act accomplished by it (which, obviously, could have been accomplished normally
[ 28:36] So the overruling (miracle) of 3-74 disclosed an entity behind it, and, in doing so, lifted aside—detonated into atoms and nonbeing—the veil of dokos . I did not penetrate the veil and see beyond it; rather, he who is behind it obliterated it (the slice of ham between me and him), and allowed us then to merge . Merging (i.e., [3] ) at that point could and did occur naturally—without effort, once He had atomized the slice of ham
I will even go so far as to say :
What I think was accomplished was the breaking of the Orwellian Horse
Plato argues that the universe is an alive organism with a world soul.
The omnipotent creator God of the Jews and Christians is a concept which does not account for this element that Cornford calls
Not only does the omnipotent creator God of the Jews and Christians not fit observable facts, it also does not fit my revelation . Plato's cosmology does . (And keep in mind: Plato censured Anaxagoras for believing the Noös
The world as living, evolving organism . Yes, I saw that (in 3-74). But its psyche partially irrational? And the demiurge (divine reason) persuades
It is this disorder (chaos) of Ananke which shows up in my books (e.g., Ubik) as entropy . Cornford says ,
Cornford specifically uses the term overrule.
➊ Constantly changing, like all living animals . So this disorder is always underlying—as a constant—not prior to order but under
[ 29:5] The joined ,
A mere shift of say 10% of pattern (very slight but skillful accentuations and suppressions) produces these alternate universes.
[ 29:9] Burroughs in The Ticket That Exploded says of the Nova Mob parasites that as they move from one human host to another they give themselves away (to the Nova police) by the continuity of their habits, such as tastes in food (in Hamburger Mary's case a taste for peanut butter). This was exactly true about Thomas . And I've subjectively felt myself as a female, a womb into which something like an egg (Firebright) was deposited—like a cuckoo egg . Was Thomas a saprophyte turned parasite, and deposited his egg
KW has noted a resemblance between several things I've described and what Burroughs has written—e.g., my conviction that as a race or even planet we are sick
There is just no doubt of it: such passages in Burroughs' novel as the Do it—do it—neck message within another message—words that weren't originally there but are like the inner trigrams of an I Ching hex—that is one absolute triangulated
Information-blocking, as represented in Maze symbolically by the erasure of the instruction tape . This tells us what kind of info is blocked: our instructions as to our purposes or tasks: all that the term instructions imply . And where do the instructions come from? A satellite: in other words, another planet or world from this . And also somehow relatedly, we are not really where and when we think we are . The erased
KW points out that our finding info in random
The auditory part is the agenbite of inwit
We can't receive audio or visual information, it is jammed or cooked . So St. Sophia
They are at present diversifying their arrivals, feints within and among which the real landing (2nd advent) will be lost in the confusion of absurd raw data . Which among the fake messages is the real one?
But primarily, as John Calvin said, the damage is to our brains, to our faculties . We can't see and we can't hear . Restoration of our lost faculties signifies the end-times, and my faculties, in 3-74, were restored . That this restoration could only be temporary shows why St. Sophia
So I saw reality correctly—as a vast living body—and I conversed with its mind (psyche?). This identification of St. Sophia with the world soul absolutely accounts for and agrees with what I saw and understood: the vast thinking, living, evolving animal with a rational intelligence . And that mind (Holy Wisdom) can enter
[ 29:21] (1) The universe is alive, it has a mind, it thinks, it has audible thoughts which (under certain circumstances) we can hear inwardly . The mind is female . Plato says ,
When the mind (St. Sophia) encounters and detects a spurious (i.e., irreal) section, it replaces it with an ontologically real section of itself; by transubstantiation . It has already determined that much of this particular planet is irreal . Hence, it is making orthogonal time
We are back again to the model of construct, repairman and deranged Circuit Board . The messages intended for reception by the Circuit Board are not getting to it; specifically, the voice (thoughts) of the mind of the [total] organism.
( 3) the St. Sophia
[ 29:31] Will Durant says that one of religion's—any religion's—prime functions is
Christ takes the blow . In unusual (extreme?) cases the suffering creature actually experiences Christian anamnesis and remembers who he is and how he fits in with the Passion play.
To see or experience the literal real presence of the savior in the doomed sufferer is perhaps to have penetrated to the heart of Christianity . I witnessed it myself; I know by divine revelation . And since Christ can and does become all living creatures (since all suffer undeservedly and die) he, like Brahman, is ubiquitous (immanent) in the universe, moving toward a final disclosure that the universe is only a form which God assumes, and that the ultimate result of this so-to-speak self-inflicted (unknowingly) pain on its sentient parts is to restore to those parts their memories and hence true identities . They awake, remember, know, and rejoin the urgrund . (
) So the unfair pressures of an unknowing causal—and casual—universe reawaken the one sleeping mind in its pluriforms . And so it encounters itself, who or what has inflicted undeserved pain or who or what? God as creator or God as Son, and the 3rd member of the trinity, the Holy Spirit, is the agent which effects this blitz
I did not work out my divine substitution
[ 29:37] But suppose the whole concept of God is jettisoned, and the Noös is regarded as that of the living evolving entelechy which presents itself to us as the universe . This Noös—or psyche—is St. Sophia . It is in process, assimilating disorder and placing it in order—i.e., as part of its structure . It is building itself out of the stockpile of the past which I saw, moving through sequential transformations . Christ is a microform of this world soul, come to this part (Circuit Board
[ 29:45] Always, the savior is manifested where not expected :
Like a thief in the night.
Christ is the God of the broken (
[ 29:53] Okay—I'll go so far as to say that A.D. 1974 Calif. is a fraudulent echosphere
So one dozen novels and too many stories to count narrate a message of one world obscuring or replacing another (real) one, spurious memories, and hallucinated (irreal) worlds . The message reads, spurious interpolations noise
This is especially possible in the world as Noös system of Xenophanes . What if the Noös has a few cogs missing—isn't playing with a full deck? In that case it may sporadically create paradoxes, illusions and competing, and inconsistent realities as it reverses itself—a form of disorder . But—this leads to dreadful spinoffs, as in Faith of . James-James symbolizes him being a spoiled little boy—with too many toys.
[ 30:11] The real conspiracy goes much deeper than conspiracy buffs (such as Bob Wilson) suspect, although he almost had it in the theory that our universe is a hologram created by the intersection of two hyperuniverses . Fact is, our reality is hologram-like: a spurious satanic interpolation by the artifact constituting a prison which shuts out information that like Runciter's messages would reveal our true situation . It's Klingsor's Castle45: apparently substantial but actually irreal . All the pranks, Marx Brothers gags, joke information, etc., which they (VALIS/Zebra) are bombarding us with are for the purpose of unlocking us from the hold this mere hologram-like fake universe has over us . VALIS isn't telling us it's fake; he's showing (demonstrating) it by melting it into silly putty tricks . The consensual-validation hold by the phenomenal world over us—the gloomy spell—must be broken . VALIS is making nonsense of our real
If this be so, then my writing has been of value . Beyond the obvious contribution of indicting the universe as a forgery (and our memories also) I present the most accurate and stringent—rigorous—revised criteria to pull the truly real as set out of ground . (Love, making exceptions, humor, determination, etc: the little virtues .) And, as Lem says, I somehow pile trash on trash until it
