( 2) Zebra is the repairman Zebra them
But it's a 3rd kind contact . Sorry about that, fellas . But Zebra
Since this all happened on Christ's actual birthday (March 18), 23 then Zebra probably is the cosmic Christ, whom I could see because of the Holy Spirit inside me—who, it is said, makes clear the mystery of Christ to us...in fact, it could even be said that if one were not
Dream: book of mine with footnote :
Was I herein shown the real cryptic message in my writing that God loves us? Felix . Gloss is from a Greek word meaning
a difficult word needing explanation . gloss appeared in my dream in the Greek or Latin, not English sense; in English it means the explanation itself of the difficult word, but in my dream it's a
What a wonderful revelation in answer to my constant Q :
The EB says that God (through his grace) will restore
➌ My Latin dictionary defines glossa as an
[ 50:43] It is also interesting that the cypher word in Tears (Felix) is the final word in Scanner (i.e., happy). The tied shirt dream was not precog, an ability on my part . It was divine prophecy and promise: it held out hope and fulfilled it—"Happy"( Felix) may be a cunning reference to Euripides' The Bacchae in which the stranger (Dionysus in human form) refers to King Penthus as King of Tears, punning on the Greek word for tears: pentheus . And the word tears is in the title of my novel . The real message is that he whom Pindar called the joy god is here . It is a cypher within a cypher; Felix is not a name but a glossa meaning (among other good things) happy . But happy is a cypher back to a name: i.e., name to word to name . And the final name underlying Felix is Dionysus . The deity who has inserted the message into the inferior bulk has identified himself . The total message from him is, Paupers and Kings
[ 50:60] We are talking about an intrinsic long-dormant personality capable of functioning on a level high enough to allow it to see, hear and understand the supernormal universe of the divine—none of which can be perceived by the normal self . More and more I see myself as an unknowing fifth columnist: interestingly, if this is so much of my writing not only points to it but outright reveals (discloses) it . If there are such 5th columnists, i.e., people unaware of slumbering superpersonality within them, timed to go off when they return, and if the
First, my writing presents an unvarying cosmological schema in accord with the suppressed (Gnostic) doctrines, but then, when we get to Tears (and perhaps earlier, e.g., Faith of ,
[ 50:63] I saw, in 3-74, how the great purposeful force (entity) of the universe works backward (theologically). Vast long-range patterns emerge . A little 4 year old boy hears a cowboy song and then 45 years later hears it again—sung by his favorite singer . The retrograde pull is there . It can be said that when he was 4 he was inordinately drawn to it because of her singing it 45 years later . It can be said correctly that when her first record came out in the sixties, he was inordinately drawn to her because 6 years later she would sing that song . There can be no real understanding of the universe when only the efficient causes are studied—they lack the conscious, deliberate purpose of final causes . No sense can be made of cause-and-effect linear time events . The past does not make the future; the future uses the antecedent universe as a chaotic stockpile which it assembles into a structure (cosmos). To understand, we must discern the negentropic developments—but to do this we would have to be able to remember
[ 50:82] As in Plato's Timaeus the steersman
It is exactly analogous to the occasional firing of jets in a spacecraft to minutely correct its trajectory; only this ship
I can't find him . Only when we rejoin and are together will I know what the erased tape
I know no more than Xenophanes, and he was just about the first philosopher . And he said ,
This is probably the happiest moment of my life—I can say to this moment, stay . Here is the fallen black cat on my lap; I am listening to Stevie Nicks on my Stax phones—the Gollancz edition of Scanner arrived today . They say it is a human document—yes, their flap blurb word is document.
Not the most sensational, but most human.
It is a beautiful book qua book . Jim Westaway's words on the back dust jacket . And what KW saw—the link between my intro to Roog ,
[ 50:87] What must be bravely faced is that the entire world or cosmos is not [yet] subjugated to the divine will—it stands, so to speak at a 51/49 ration between divine modulation and mere efficient determinism . Evil (death, loss, disappointment and suffering and illness) are not abolished yet but are very slightly tamed over and above their non-divine James-James nature . It's like the trade balance of a country . Well, in the universe, in 1974, we passed over to a slightly greater export than import ratio . This is hard to accept . Nature fights God . The designs (e.g., DNA, etc .) are not designs of the divine (the natural theology
[ 50:88] Where does the divine agony enter? Why? Before the incarnation? Isn't the incarnation the intrusion—the initial intrusion—of the divine abyss into the mundane something? Christ said ,
I have conquered the world.
Our problem may be that we have no comprehension of the inner necessity of sequence in this transmutation . Could our agony be microcosmic replication of the macrocosmic divine, with which we are (1) isomorphic; and (2) actual fragments of, like bits of a hologram: intact gestalts but dimmer or less defined . The urgrund sought self-intuition . We as dimmer bits have not yet achieved that self-intuition; hence, when we suffer, we do not know why . Up the hierarchical scale there is still suffering—even perhaps an increasing level of suffering at each hierarchical stage . But also at each ascending stage there is a quantum leap in a self-intuition which bestows (permits) greater understanding of why there is this suffering . At the top, the incarnated son (heart, logos, etc., St. Sophia) knows himself totally and knows totally why he suffers . It is due to the Blitz—the flash of the encounter between the divine abyss and the something—which must be overcome
[ 50:91] Has anyone thought of this modified Gnosticism? There was no creator of this world (planet or cosmos) and the life therein . Atheists such as Darwin are absolutely right; it was no God but simply natural law at work, determining evolution . However, a loving, all-wise, sentient super-entity inhabiting an upper triad ,
[ 50:92] It is a major realization that just as Thomas Aquinas' natural theology arguments (such as arguing back from design to designer, etc .) fail to prove the existence of God, the ruthlessness and disorder in nature do not logically imply a bad creator God; no argument, natural ontological ,
[ 50:93] Take the statement by the spirit to me back in 1968 about the Galapagos turtle . The import of what the spirit said was that even though it appeared otherwise, the dying turtle was somehow extricated :
Boehme wrote that man (i.e., men) have a choice illuminated for them by the light of the spirit: we can remain in torment as victim of the oscillations of the lower triad (or material) universe, or
—negate ourselves as the urgrund does, and thereby imitate Christ and follow him from suffering to triumph (joy). Thus anguish is ultimately something to overcome, not fall victim to . Anguish is the starting point . So we must not tarry in anguish, but hasten with
[ 50:101] The cunning counterfeit of reality, revealed as such when authentic reality breaks through—like the tip-tip of the branch blowing against the window in Finnegans Wake during Earwicker's dream . This tip-tip is the clue, and the only clue . In Ubik it is the commercials and messages intruding
This would indicate a fallen state of our world, and the divine enters at the bottom—i.e., in the trash, the lowly, the discarded . Christ speaks of the tiny mustard seed , 28 and the gloss on the J. Bible29 stresses that the kingdom will enter inconspicuously—very small; i.e., lowly . Where we would be least likely to look for it (cf . provinces
[ 50:137] We can be moved anywhere anytime, caused to do or not do anything, entirely motivated by an external force (mind), and never perceive the Leibniz-like preset clocks
We're a fucking goddam Biosphere
[ 50:142] Ah—my bipolarization between the human and the android . Free man (liberated) vs. the artifact controlled android
[ 28:1] The other universe is an intelligent, thinking mind, and so when it impinges on our material universe, these impregnations take the form of written or audible information (words), such as described in Ubik . This is, in fact, the basic situation in Ubik—the impinging on the irreal world they are in (while half alive) in the form of helpful information . The term for this impinging information is word
Using Tesla's33 theories about energy and information transfer, the Soviets are now able to synthesize a sort of mundane Logos, or ionospheric information transfer grid . However, Tesla, in his own work with such Radar-like devices found he had made contact with a
Ubik deals with all this . In reading Ubik anyone familiar with either the man-made Logos
What to me is most interesting is that this sheds a lot of light on the enigmatic term or entity logos, the word (and wisdom) of God . Only if the other universe is conceived as Xenophanes (e.g., Anaxagoras) conceived it—as noös—does word
Words, bursting through the material world, are in fact the real universe (noös) penetrating a (mere) holographic projection . Without the understanding and awareness of the real (ultimate) reality being one of mind, the concept the word makes no sense since, as Xenophanes saw, the noös wields the world by its thinking, the word-wisdom is not a mere aspect of the ultimate, the urgrund, but its activity per se; hence in Genesis, when God says ,
This dramatic reversal fits my most acute analysis and understanding of the end-times
[ 28:12] As a result of the archetype lying at the absolute deepest core of pain, there comes a point in a person's life, when he reaches that core, that his pain is, by holy miracle, inexplicably transmuted into joy . This is the heart of the Christian mystery—and the heart of the issue ,
Thus wisdom says ,
I will accompany you down even into the prisons.
As it dies the creature comes to itself
[ 28:15] And why do we forget in the first place? The desire to escape from pain . Like it or not, the hallmark of the real is the infliction of and hence the experience of pain—physical and mental: because, for activity (change) in the total organism to occur, its respiration
Hence it is logical not merely ethical for me to transfer my money to such organizations as Care, Save the Children, etc .; only insofar as I live in them and with them (the other) do I live at all; intellect, not merely conscience, insists . What we call conscience
I was so clear in my mind as to the exact point in this drama at which we stood: (1) the savior had died, but (2) we had passed over from grieving at the loss (i.e., looking back) but were looking ahead to his return, and rejoicing already . Furious preparations were in order, as if to be ready when the bridegroom appears—it could happen any second (but that could be a long time in profane, linear time). Still, we were no longer involved in the Loss (the passion); that was over . And: (3) the black iron prison had been successfully burst and (4) the prisoners saved . Part of our joy stemmed from knowing that destruction of Babylon/Rome (the prison) came before his return, and it had been accomplished . Now things were such that we could imminently expect him and he would take us by surprise—we did not, could not, know the hour
[ 28:19] That Gnostic narration about Christ being seen simultaneously as a child, a man, a little old bald man, a short man, a vastly tall man—it resembles the will-o-the-wisp UFO sightings and contacts.36 And Zebra has a little of that playful, mirthful quality—very much so.
[ 28:27] Everything points to time travel . And my reconstruction of the fish sign as Crick and Watson's double helix DNA molecule tells me who in the past these time travelers (undoubtedly from the future) presented them selves as . The Christian theme is a constant thread through time—with the hologrammatic
However, let us not err; the whole world is irreal in the same sense, and this projected beam can
