I have achieved spirituality (the Buddha or Christos state) but by sacrificing myself, physically injuring myself to the point where death is now a real possibility.➊ The spiritual element would not die; it would simply as cend out of this world back to its origin and home . But Tagore, my spiritual self, begs for an end to the inflicting of these burns—which (I repeat) I have taken on voluntarily by identifying myself with all life and the suffering of all creatures . It will not end by my ceasing to take on these stigmata; that is not what Tagore pleads for . Tagore pleads for an end of the crimes against life—not my life but other lives—that result in these voluntarily-assumed burns . Tagore—myself—he is crippled now, and yet he emits
Agent Orange and T-2: the day I typed up the Xerox letter.
I realized tonight—the ecosphere is my body: the indivisible unity is my total psychosomatic (mind-body) being . Animals and all less (sic) than human life are my body; and the humans poisoning the ecosphere—this is my mind (mind —"human species") poisoning my body by not recognizing that it must live in harmony with it, that they are parts of one indivisible whole.
But it is not the intellect that characterizes Tagore; he is far beyond that . Nor is it love nor beauty, although both are there . It is sweetness, an ineffable sweetness related to love, related to beauty, but perhaps more to perfume, music and colors, as I say in my letter . This is a spirituality that cannot otherwise be categorized and it is this that tells me that his spirituality is absolute, for it transcends love and beauty, the two ultimate ontological categories of God . This is not God: this is a man, a given, individual man; this is not a deity (although he is also—but secondarily—deity), this is the perfection of a man such as we are, this is not the wholly other
[ 62: C-85] Who and what is Tagore? He is Tagore (a particular, not [a] God). But I know now: he is either Buddha, the Buddha, or a Buddha (awakened or enlightened one), and this is very seriously considered in VALIS as one of the possibilities; e.g. ,
[ 62: C-86] Tremendous breakthrough insight 5:15 A.M . The whole Christian magic of 2-74 on worked because I believed in it; but it worked—not because Christianity is true—in contrast to other systems/religions which are false but because Sankara and the Buddhists are right: it is a conjurer's trick; it is magic; and what this points to (the fact that my total belief on that day in 2-74 when I saw the Christian fish sign caused everything that followed to occur) is illusion; as I say: magic, conjurer's tricks . Viz: Christianity to magic to conjurer's tricks to illusion . And what does illusion point to? The truth of Buddhism and Sankara; pan-Indian thought about the il lusory nature of reality
[ 62: C-87] In the face of this, spiritual perfection depends on enlightenment that there is a grand illusion, inner and outer; and, finally, the kind of compassion for all the living creatures caught in the weary wheel
[ ...] E.g., the Ƴ turning into a palm tree doesn't verify Christianity; it verifies the conjurer's trick and this is pan-Indian thought . So from 2-74 to 2-75 I was in the grip of maya . But: because reality
[ 62: C-99] I don't know what's the matter with me—the no-nukes
[ 62: C-161] Where Gnosticism is indispensable is twofold: (1) exact analysis of fallen man's condition; and (2) it is 180 degrees reversed by what is called Gnosis, a cognitive event . But their overall system is unsound . Nonetheless Gnosticism contains essential pieces of the puzzle . They have an exact understanding of the malady and also the correct idea that the remedy somehow involves cognition and knowledge and this knowledge comes as a gift from a savior or messenger—i.e., Christ . Thus they fully appreciate what salvation
[ 62: C-168] I have supra done something never before done: rather than drawing on Gnosticism I have figured out the real teaching of the Gnostics . At some primordial time there was indeed a crisis in the heights, but this isn't what interests the Gnostics; Gnosticism is practical: the Gnostics have studied the effect of this crisis and figured out that the intactness of each person in the world is either damaged or abolished (destroyed); each of us has suffered a primordial inner schism with the result that any given human self is only part of a once-intact greater self . Each of us is alienated from the world (man contra world) because each of us is alienated from himself, not just warring or in conflict: no: the parts of the self have become separated from each other and because of that, experience of world is partial, occluded, impaired, deformed . A partial self experiences a partial world, with the result that world is alien, irreal, hostile, strange, arousing perplexity and dread . Man does not understand world because he does not understand himself; thus Gnosticism derives its epistemology (and cosmogony and cosmology) from an ontology of psychology . If the missing piece of self is rejoined—if the severed parts come back together, experience of world—Dasein, being-in-the-world—will take care of itself: the rupture between self and world will heal on its own because now world will be experienced radically differently , 180 degrees differently . Gnosticism has hidden its ontological psychology within a weird and grotesque mythology that successfully obscures both real purpose and real means to that purpose: to bring the two parts of the self back together (the in-gathering of the light by the messenger who is
[ 62: C-170] The absolutely basic key to Gnosticism is the encounter with the familiar in the midst of the alien landscape: the partial self recognizes something that it has seen before and yet cannot have seen before because by definition this is a fremd (unfamiliar) landscape, not the self: own . With this recognition comes unavoidable returned (restored) memory, which is memory of what it—the self—once was . What it is remembering is its true nature . (The relation to Orphism is obvious .) But it is missing half of itself; it now knows itself to be a partial fragment of a once intact self that is now somehow scattered . Thus although anamnesis is not pri mary—it is predicated on recognizing something familiar in the uncanny world—it is the crucial event, because it is in and through anamnesis that the parts of the self, separated for aeons, come back together . This means that all the pieces comprising the total, restored, intact self are somehow in
Involved (simultaneously) in this process is an additional absolutely crucial ingredient—event, realization—that I call the meta-abstraction and which Plato calls noesis . The partial (incomplete) self on its own cannot perform this cognitive operation because it requires two vantage-points by the participant (what I call Ditheon), analogous to spatial parallaxes . That which is recognized as familiar must be, by definition, familiar to the estranged, severed part of the total self since by definition it has never been seen before by the conscious self—which is only a partial self . That is, for the sense of recognition to occur, the conscious self cannot avoid being aware of its own banished part for it is precisely that banished part that knows what is seen, recognizes it . There is here a hint of the primordial, suggesting that the original schism did occur in the prenatal past, as Plato taught . But the situation is more complex, because at the level at which the total self operates, the concept past must be redefined . Here Platonist epistemology enters with its forms doctrine . Unless the universalia ante rem34 are envisioned, what is happening cannot be fathomed . The two parts of the self are not in the same spatiotemporal world . Their relationship to each other comes through—occurs because of—a trans-temporal constant (form) that because it is trans-temporal and -spatial exists simultaneously
Much of this is palpably Platonist and Neoplatonist, but what is truly Gnostic is the idea that the self is fragmented—broken—so that part of it is at one time-and-place and the other part at another time-and-place; thus Gnosticism adds a radical ontological psychological analysis lacking in Platonism and Neoplatonism, and, logically following from this premise, a soteriology based on a successful rejoining of the fragmented parts of the self . (Plato and Plotinus know nothing of this .) From the Gnostic viewpoint, each fragment of the broken-apart self is not experiencing world at all, in the strict sense, and only will do so when rejoined; meanwhile the situation of the fragments is one of alienation—primarily from self, and, following from this self-alienation, alienation from world—or worlds, since both halves of the total self are independently tracking (experiencing) different partial realities connected only by the Platonic forms, which by their nature are in all worlds at all times and places, or anyhow capable of being so . The in-gathering of the self, then, is due accidentally to the perceived form (one form seen twice; that is, in two different spatiotemporal worlds) but deliberately to the salvador salvandus ,
But now rejoined, the two parts become a unitary totality and experience a radically different world than either part previously experienced . Space, time, causation, and multiplicity are gone; what exists now is world as unfallen pleroma, because upon the self being reunified, world ceases to be the alien, irreal pseudo world the parts knew—were thrown into . Restoration to and of self and pleroma then occurs here and now (as Plotinus speaks of). This unified world defies normal ordering categories and experiences the Ditheon entity that experiences it . It is familiar, intelligible and permanent and, most of all, permeated by the divine (whose realm it is). It is a kind of after-life world . (The whole is greater than the sum of its parts and radically different than them .) The gulf between Earth Heaven is abolished (which explains why the Orphics and Gnostics assumed a literal spatial fall!). There is an absolute impression of vertical ascent . But what is most striking is that the transmundane
However, the problem (Verfallenheit) and soteriological solution are in VALIS a seamless whole . One must either accept both or reject both; they are indivisible . Now, an ignorant reader rejects both as madness
What, however, if the soteriological theme in VALIS is taken to be as real as the stated problems? This (the reader knows) is impossible . The appeal to his assent can't be responded to, because the reader knows the problems to be unanswerable; this intractability of the Verfallen situation is his (as an existentialist) fundamental article of faith . He not only knows that the situation is real, he also knows that by its very nature it cannot be rectified; true honesty and courage and integrity require that he take this implacable stand of confronting the is qua is . To start supposing transmundane intervention undoes the very basis of moral values built into his realization: that it is a hopeless situation and that he faces this absolutely . Thus to him VALIS is more dangerous than it is to a more ignorant person who is able to deny or ignore the problems raised as insane, morbid or self-indulgent . VALIS is dangerous because upon stating the problem in a modern way, it thereupon draws on a solution so absurd and obsolete that it—the solution—seems to insult the integrity of the very person able to perceive the reality of the problem! VALIS, then, aims at the most modern and sophisticated reader and then presents him with a solution
[ 62: C-192] Cease to run from your death, turn and face it and make it yours (Eigen), your own, not the it—fremd—of others . When you do this, time (the past and the future) collapses into the present; there is only the now (Dasein); this death is now (spiritually and ontologically) for in making it yours you seize it and master it and assimilate it to you (not you to it); this world is radically transformed and becomes as-if-you . This is the
This is the topic of Wagner's Ring ,
The great confrontation worthy of man is between tragedy (the classic and Greek victory by Fate over man) and the heroic (modern and Faustian: the victory of man over Fate) —and this is achieved by collapsing time and space and meeting death now, on your own terms: seizing it, not it you, you die, but it is your death, not death imposed on you in violation of your nature; it is a logical outcome of what you are, not what world and Fate are . He who can do this has won where in the Ring
[ 62: C-203] The weapons of power—coercive physical power—lose because they inevitably encounter some adversary more powerful . The only real victory can occur by being conquered (as bait/sacrifice: swallowed by evil) and then coming-into-being, at the center of evil, and this is precisely what true Christianity—in secret—has done; thus it is subversive and invisible and at the center of power in its disguised form (mimesis). Evil poses as good; good is invisible within it, unknown to it (i.e., to evil, the BIP). All this is taught in the Tao Te Ching, oddly: this is how the Tao works (extra dimension is the God body as it really is . And we wound it . It manifests itself substantially to us and for us . But is actually insubstantial, an idea; it gives birth to itself in and as the physical, substantial, phenomenal world for our sakes: but then we injure and destroy and pillage and exploit and misuse it . Did it not will itself to exist in physical, substantial, sensible dimensions we would be unable to apprehend it . Here is where Malebranche fits in: what we see is a representation of something else, but that something else
Thus it is not proper to say, We are occluded
Galina's dream and the Tagore vision are one and the same (and are Valis). This theme of grief, sacrifice, pain, loss, suffering goes back (in my writing) to Tears and this is what Tears is all about . VALIS discloses this—the grieving, sorrowing Godhead . But I now see that this comes from its self sacrifice in falling into space, time, causality, multiplicity and substantiality for our sakes: so as to both create us and world for us . And the ambience of its sacrifice, its fall, is in Dowland's music: pain and love . (Sorrow and love, which is the same love that generates its distress .) When seen, it is perfect beauty . This is how it looks.
Okay . Now I know at last what the significance, ontologically speaking, of suffering is: it is a re-performance of God's original sacrifice for our sakes . Suffering is the cost of—the price paid for, exacted for—the creation
The greatest sorrow of all is abstract sorrow: the pure essence of the Godhead . This is found in Dowland's first music that is abstract—and from him to Beethoven . What this is is cognitive sorrow and is the divine essence itself . It is pure knowing . It is not an emotion; it is awareness of its own essence: two mirrors: sorrow and awareness of sorrow, its own sorrow . We must save the Savior: extricate the Godhead from its self sacrifice.
[ 63: D-149] Now, I came to believe a couple of weeks ago that when loaded I upon reading Luke realized that this was not a verbal (informational) description of a world but was that world itself in its verbal/informational mode/state/form . And this is precisely what is said in the Sepher Yetzirah notes about idea, word and writing of word, and object being one for God, that for God
It cannot be a coincidence that I felt this about Luke, then; I had actually encountered what the Sepher Yetzirah notes declare.36 This is where my concept of the plasmate comes in . (Here, now, in this line of reasoning I close the noose, for the enhanced infinity mode was in fact the world of the Bible, specifically Acts —the second half of Luke.37) Now, the great intuitive guess on my part was that the plasmate is the blood of the resurrected Christ and that because it is here now (in its verbal/written/information mode) he must be here now (1) the world of Luke-Acts
Therefore Christ is present in the macrocosm-microcosm correspondence: (1) as all reality; (2) as Scripture wherever it occurs . I utilize the idea expressed, e.g., in Matthew—and which I believe; Paul often refers to this—that all Scripture—that is, the OT or Torah itself—secretly is an account of Christ, and that this secret nature of Hebrew Scripture was only revealed at the time of the first advent . In a certain mysterious way, then, the Torah encloses
All this was reported—albeit crudely—in VALIS . World yields up the story (as Eliade puts it) and the story is the life, death, resurrection and then sinking into camouflage within world (where he now lives on) of Jesus Christ: world, then, is simultaneously information about Christ (it tells its story) and is Christ by reason—by way—of internal arrangement, especially that of the lowly, the vegetable kingdom . (What I call the trash stratum, debris discarded
It is very clear to me that there is an identity between Jesus Patibilis and Hainuwele :
[ 64: E-1] Luke-Acts transduced from word mode to object mode but still information: the universe made of information in terms of the internal mutual arrangement of the constituents as a gestalt, pastiche, a collage . Now, the cardinal topic of Luke-Acts is Jesus Christ . How (if at all) does he appear in this pastiche/gestalt? He does appear but not in anthropomorphic form; he is camouflaged in and as the total pastiche/gestalt, hence cosmic . As information, this universe as pastiche-gestalt read not in a linear manner but as a gestalt (form) reveals or is or contains him throughout like a steady modulation fed into it, a waveform ubiquitous in the gestalt (now construed as a field). This modulation can best be termed
[ 64: E-3] Therefore: Christ is hyper information that reduces the information universe to the carrier which he modulates (i.e., perturbs). This brings to mind my protest art theory that rogue information has penetrated a prior official information system . (This relates to my analysis of Gnosticism as a weak transmitter —but this should read weak interfering signal; the transmitter may be powerful but very far away .) I conceive of this as a combat between the two information systems, and, if the Gnostics are right, the weak transmission
[ 64: E-5] The universe was created out of 22 Hebrew letters (Sepher Yetzirah) but there is a missing 23rd letter; when his 23rd letter is added, all the negative prohibitions of the Torah vanish; severe limitation and justice are replaced by mercy and freedom: this is the third Shemittah and it is the Messianic Age . Christ, then, can be construed—as rogue information system—to be the corrected, completed basis of creation in which 23 Hebrew letters replace the 22 originally employed . He is, then, an added, formerly missing letter, and this addition changes everything, from severe limitation and justice to freedom and mercy; I construe this as nullifying specifically the lex talionis40 which has to do with punishment in connection with breaking the thou shalt not —the negative prohibitions in Torah . Since this carries over into physical law (causation, efficient cause), what was a mechanical system (pitiless ,
[ 64: E-11] There is essentially an adversary situation between the two info systems (old vs. hyper) even if this is the 23 letter Torah replacing the older 22 letter Torah . The older system involves and operates by heimarmene; the newer system on a flexible, sentient, more complex, more evolved, etc., etc., basis . These are such radically different worlds that—well, the term cosmos cannot contain both: it is cosmos penetrated from outside—hence the Gnostic premise of the transmundane—a necessary premise in understanding the situation: transmundane deity as overruling the creator and his creation . At the very core of this lies, then, Faustian man and the Faustian ideal and Dasein; and this is the topic of Owl! 42 And as I wrote ultra supra: it is the heroic (the new, the Gnostic, the Faustian) versus the tragic (the old: sidereal passivity
[ 64: E-12] You take the text (which is linear, sequential and digital) of Acts and convert it into a world: objects in their mutual arrangement . (Acts is part two of Luke .) What is the basic story of Luke-Acts? Jesus Christ . But when you turn it into a world, although the narrative is still there, Jesus Christ cannot be seen (i.e., as an object among objects). The linear, digital text is now a gestalt (Bild) and is read simultaneously but by the right hemisphere . (The linear digital text of course as narrative is read by the left hemisphere .) Where now is Christ, if not an object among objects . He is missing . Then you discover that in a unified total gestalt (pattern) read simultaneously by the right hemisphere analogically Christ is present as the pattern itself: as unified totality . The puzzle is solved . Luke-Acts
This fits in with the intuition I've had for some time: that the Bible is the real world and appears in our spurious world as a putative book the way Grasshopper
I offer the following idea: that what I call the plasmate, which is living information, is the third testament of Joachim del Fiore which emerges as the spirit of the two testaments (OT and NT) when they are superimposed; it is the spirit of which they are the
So my Type A Psyche is the OT, my Type B Psyche is the NT, and because these two testaments function as a single organism in a push-pull dialectic relationship (superimposed) they form one new, higher, third entity which I call Ditheon, a life form so advanced that it is superior to all creation; and yet it itself is not God but is the image of the invisible God . Philo of Alexandria was the first to figure out its existence; he relied on his Jewish sources and on Greek sources (in particular Plato) as well . One could speak of our spatiotemporal world, then, being based on the Bible or even emanat ing from the Bible; the Bible is not a book like other books: it is not a description of this world, it is the source of this world, and this world, at all places and times, conforms covertly to the Bible; that is, strip away the stegenographic covering from the physical world and you will find the world of the Bible—in fact you will find the Bible itself as a verbal text permeating reality and giving rise to it . The Bible is the information that is fed into the space-time universe, as if transduced into substantial reality . Thus the Bible is always the case—what is known in Bible study as typological application . Thus the books of the Bible do not refer to one given specific place and one specific time, but are equally applicable to all places and all times, when the dokos is stripped away from true reality . Joachim was aware of this meta-organism existing in the two testaments, and he was aware that it is a world; that is his crucial awareness; this third entity, this spiritual meta-entity created by an accord between the OT and the NT is a spiritual world in which men exist or can exist or will someday exist; it is somehow real and somehow available . It is both an historical epoch (lying in the future) and yet, paradoxically, here now, as is the Kingdom of God that Jesus speaks of . If you doubt the truth of what I am saying, look at the 22nd psalm and think of the crucifixion; you will see that the 22nd psalm, although written centuries before the birth of Jesus, applies to and exists at the time of the crucifixion; it lies outside of space and outside of time entirely, and is true now as well . 43 This is what led me to reiterate obsessively that secretly
; what I failed to realize is that
does not refer to a specific historical context, a given time and given place, but to an archetypal reality that is the very basis on which our seeming world is built, and this archetypal reality consists—not of a place, not of a time, not of substantial reality—but information . The Bible is not a world reduced to a verbal description; on the contrary: it is the verbal source of world, just as signals from a radio transmitter are the informational source of the voices and music you hear when you turn on your receiver . But (as I say) three entities
Thus the physical spatiotemporal universe is not information, as I declare in VALIS, but is derived from information; this information is the next hypostasis up, ontologically speaking . It goes: God, Logos (information), spatiotemporal universe, and then back to God as goal of the whole process (Erigena). In March , 1974, by means of my meta-abstraction I so-to-speak rolled back the physical universe to the Uttered Word underlying it, from which it is derived; this is why, finally, the term word is in fact an excellent translation of Logos.
Analysis: clearly the location is the concert hall years ago in which my agoraphobia/claustrophobia broke out, when Horowitz was playing the Brahms second piano concerto . The friends with me that day were Bay Area intellectual homosexuals.45 The play enacted, the roles taken in semblance of an actual discussion, as in that Berlioz work I saw where the woman grabs the conductor's arm to make him stop conducting—this refers to what Hans Jonas says about the older Greco-Roman-Babylonian closed cosmos, specifically Stoicism in which all you can do is play your role in a drama with as much grace as possible
What I am doing in the dream is—because I do not understand that these are only roles acted out, a formal drama—I have broken the rules; I have spoken out of turn, which means that I have unintentionally rebelled against our status in the cosmos, my own status; they have accepted theirs and only say and do what their scripts call for them to do . Hence their frowns of disapproval when I join in impromptu . This is rebellion, my primordial rebellion, but as I say it is based on a misunderstanding on my part, a failure to comprehend the situation . When the situation is made clear to me I lower my voice; that is, I cease to interfere with the clockwork marionette drama being acted out, but I continue to talk in a somewhat muted voice, privately, to the nearest member of the audience . That is, I cease blatantly to rebel, but I am not entirely still . What I am doing at this point is trying to understand what the drama being enacted is about; I accept the fact that I am a spectator and can't participate; this has to do with my withdrawn status in life that is my current mode . This status is forced on me because I am literally not part of the drama . No role, no lines, nothing has been assigned me except to watch and listen . I can accommodate that only to a point; I have gone from trying to participate to trying to understand; thus I adopt the mode of a scholar and philosopher, but only because I have been edited out of the drama itself . Spontaneously, I would join in—did join in, but was silenced . This dream tells me a lot about my phobias and my rebellion . My rebellion is based on a misunderstanding on my part as to what is allowed and what is not allowed . I had naively thought we were free to say and do anything we wanted; that is, I presumed what I call the open or Gnostic or Faustian cosmos . The true situation reduces me to spectator, but this is not my first choice; this is forced on me by the nature of the situation (the closed cosmos in which as in Stoicism people simply act out their assigned roles, say their assigned lines). Yet I continue to speak, although not as part of the drama; I do not interrupt it but I ask about it; I seek to understand . I am barely willing to refrain from entering the drama—which would mean now to break the rules knowingly, whereas when I broke the rules before, I did not understand the situation . In the dream I feel no phobic anxiety at all, which is strange; it shows that the issue is not fear but freedom, the freedom to say and do what I feel like . I have been told what my place is . I accept it, but not entirely . Homosexual in the dream signifies something, probably an odious play that is being performed . Not only am I not allowed to participate, I dislike the subject matter: homosexual intellectuals . It is a drama I don't like and I am not allowed to enter it . I have no role at all, in any drama; there is just the one, and it is alien to me (hence the teacher looks like my attorney; this is an adversary situation). (I have no under standing of adversary situations, as I've long realized .) The dream has profound Gnostic implications; the whole situation is the Gnostic appraisal of our lives here: assigned roles in an odious drama, that is, a drama inimical to our real natures . It is a vast enactment of something unnatural . Audience and players alike collude in something that should not be . This is not my drama; had I been allowed to participate I would have disrupted it because I would have spoken contrary to the purpose and spirit of the drama, the only drama going on . This is not my world (in the dream I entered the auditorium from the outside, from perhaps a transmundane source, if indeed, as I suppose, this auditorium represents our world, the audience and actors humans living here, acting out their lives as mere roles in a closed cosmos or what they accept as a closed cosmos). I am a disruptive force, an outsider, silenced by disapproval, by mass censure . So I will seek to understand, since I cannot participate . This seeking to understand is my exegesis and my decades of epistemological analysis . I am like a visiting sociologist, like Margaret Mead investigating a foreign culture . This is not my home; these are either homosexuals or at the very least they take homosexual intellectuals to be important . I would say that this dream verifies that 2-3-74 was the Gnostic experience . From that moment on I was able to create a role for myself, rather thus my condition of Geworfenheit was reversed, nullified, solved . There are profound overtones of Existentialism here, especially from Gnosticism . The dream presents the paradigm of the Gnostic perception/conception of Dasein, in particular being thrown or cast into an alien world; moreover, the dream shows that my lifelong streak of rebellion is because this is an alien world to me, and, because it is alien, I don't know how to behave; I do not obey the rules and conventions because I do not understand them, since they are alien to me, and the drama was going on before I arrived here (i.e., was born). My rebellion, then, is a confirmation of my Dasein as basically Gnostic; the rebellion stems from Geworfenheit and the Fremd and Unheimlich . I have gone to a lot of trouble to accommodate the situation; I have ceased interrupting the drama by trying to join in—I now understand that it is a drama and that these people are playing roles assigned to them—but I am not entirely silent; my rebellion
The discovery that what I took to be an actual discussion is in fact a drama in which actors play roles could be regarded as a fundamentally Gnostic discovery . There is something rehearsed and unreal going on, a simulation . I think this dream is telling me that my analysis of last night upon rereading Jonas' study of the contrast between the pre-Gnostic worldview and the Gnostic is correct; my situation is Gnostic indeed, hence my worldview—and my problems! —arise from this situation . That my primordial phobias could arise from the Gnostic condition of Geworfenheit never occurred to me; I guess I could now view my phobias as verification of Gnosticism . Also, this makes clear that 2-3-74 was some kind of rectification of this estranged, alienated, thrown condition, perhaps related to Heidegger's Ur-Angst leading at least to Authentic Sein . So the dream refers back to the last insight that I had while driving on Sunday night: that my status in the 2-3-74, that in fact this is what 2-3-74 was all about . And it was as if the cosmos itself had changed to accommodate me (I suddenly realize); I may have changed, but it seemed as if world changed . (
A final point: the world transformed from the unfamiliar to the familiar—this cannot point to a psychotic break, for in a psychotic break this is all reversed: the familiar becomes the unfamiliar . So much for the
The mystery lies in me, then, and not in world; likewise, the solution lies in me and not in world . At my core there is something that is me and yet not me . Thomas is an example . Am I Thomas? Is he me? Hans Jonas says :
Cognitive estrangement; that is the key . And the rectification thereof . This is the goal; this is the mystery . This is Gnosticism as problem posed and resolution offered . The Gnostic assumption is that cognitive estrangement exists until rectified, and that the person is dependent on an outside source to rouse him to awareness of his state and to reverse that state . Upon it being reversed—ontological ignorance transformed into ontological knowledge—that person's status in the cosmos, his existential basis within the cosmos as part to whole, is drastically and radically reversed, transforming not only his perception of the world-order and his ability to function in it, but also his perception of his own self . In the final analysis it is not world that he now knows and knows correctly; it is his own self . Thus the motto of Apollo finds ecstatic glorification and in fact deification in Gnosticism: Know thyself.
To recap: it is the perception of isomorphism that overcomes cognitive estrangement because the perception of isomorphism is a grasping by the person (part) of his compatibility with the whole (Other, cosmos). This perception acts as two mirrors act: a runaway positive feedback is triggered off in the person, the part, concluding with his reincorporating into the cosmos—which is at the same time a repair—a return, if you will—of cosmos itself . Since he is now inside the cosmos rather than an external spectator to it—in fact now that there is cosmos—he grasps it from within; thus he perceives what Spinoza calls the attribute of mind, the inner side of res extensae (the outer side). This perception of an isomorphic constituent common to self and Other (world, cosmos) is known in India as the Tat tvam asi
This is also precisely what Heidegger describes as the condition of Greek man before the darkening
Except to add: My god; each step is a further fall . (1) Up to Parmenides is an intact part-whole true experience (Dasein) of intact cosmos . (2) Aristotle to the Stoics: there is no longer an actual experience of cosmos, of the part-whole relationship in which man is inside the cosmos; there is only faith that cosmos exists and it is good and wise, a belief-system replacing actual experience; that is, knowledge about the previous stage . (3) A further fall (i.e., the Gnostic Dasein). No faith, trust, the sense of the benign—all are gone; the world-order, still putatively believed to be a cosmos, is regarded as hostile and alien; thus estrangement is complete . Yes; here cognitive estrangement is so vast that there is conscious recognition of it; efforts are made to reverse it, i.e., to acquire the Gnosis . And I could add (4) where these efforts are abandoned, this occurring upon the death of the Gnostic attempt to reverse the state of ontological ignorance for ontological knowing . Oh Weh! The fall worsens! And yet I reversed it for myself . And what is the role of orthodox Christianity in all this? It is a pistis system; hence it fails to perceive the problem as one of cognitive estrangement: thus it neither seeks to nor succeeds in bringing about a reversal of cognitive estrangement . Like the Stoic system, it consists of a series of dogmatic beliefs; propositions assented to as creed! This is of no help whatsoever! To affirm loyalty to a series of propositions—this is precisely what Heidegger means by
