I think he then puts the rod-barrel-us out to pasture, which accounts for our various visions of heaven . We're like some horses who work, one of them saying ,
meaning that the owner, simply, puts them out to pasture . I guess we have a kind owner, who doesn't send us to the knackers . (Hell would be the tallow works . The atheist, in this model, doesn't look very intelligent; he says ,
I think that point B is in sight now, already; this is what I caught a pre-cog glimpse of, a preview of, starting one year ago, on the previous vernal equinox . By the way—isn't this Passover, today, for the Jewish people? Elijah is again back, and the other day when I came in from outside a huge wind hit the door and I felt as if Someone had entered . The wind blew over a letter I had ready to mail; the letter was to CIA, giving them the information they requested, if I am to get a copy of my file (as I demanded) from them . The wind knocked that big letter-packet flat; I'm not afraid to prove who I am and to prove that
March 18 , 1974: It, from inside me, looked out and saw that the world did not compute, that I—and it—had been lied to . It denied the reality, and power, and authenticity, of the world, saying, Growth time (movement of an entelechy toward completion) must be orthogonal to decay time ,
If we watched a speeded-up film of a form developing, we would easily discern the latent form within it (which means entelechy, really) press outward into actualization; we would sense it within, and then we would see the inner pressure finally unfold and die away, leaving the completed form without internal energy . Then we would watch decay and disorder begin . (For example, a rose bud developing .) A force, internal, a plan, unfolds energetically, then reaches equilibrium and stasis, then the force dwindles away, becomes feeble, and the completed form is at the mercy, forever, of external forces which formerly the entelechy pressed outward against so effectively . One form of energy (within, growth) has waned, and forces moving toward disorder now prevail . Maybe, if we could discern it, there were two times visible Whale's Mouth
Or—did his other self (the Other) start out long ago, and is just now returning? Himself expressed as signal (
; by arrow read half of myself
These are answers—responses, to him . By whom? This is the mystery; who is he in contact with (the Valisystem). It really is not himself in time, in past or present, but spatially complete, as on a Go board.
What is expressed here is an extraordinary demonstration of the principles of conservation and symmetry (Heraclitus and Parmenides, plus our thermal laws). What was dispatched tiny and weak and frail and ignorant has returned with moral and spiritual authority, capable of working magic, i.e., casting and removing dokos . Originally it fled Kali and has now returned, cowl-masked, robed and in disguise, the unknown person
[ 5:43] The Logos Effect ,
Ubik does indeed so resemble Dr. NK's time theory that one knowing his time theory could not escape noticing this when he read Ubik . (For example, the scientific explanation of Ubik assigns a positive value, in terms of life-sustaining or giving energy, to a counterclock spin, which is virtually a parody of Dr. NK's concept of lefthandedness being life supportive .) This would bring Ubik to their attention (as it later brought Dr. NK's theory to my attention). But in no way, probably, was I influenced by anyone telepathically, etc., even though Ubik was written in 1968, the year Dr. NK's theory was released in the U.S. in English . Evidently this is an example of the Logos Effect in harmonizing and edifying all men regarding certain salvation
This attempt, if indeed it took place, was more of a failure than a success, inasmuch as I think what came as a result of this was my developing an instinctive antipathy toward the Soviets, under the perhaps correct impression that they'd made an effort to improve
( 1) My experience indicates he is correct regarding time as energy and the way time can carry telepathic material (to quote him :
A further point: it's evident from what Dr. NK says that it would be the intent to cause a great leap in time-density in order to transmit information telepathically, not the other way around (i.e., increase density as means, the t-p info as ends); not send info telepathically as means of increasing time density somewhere . The leap in time density, the entire experience of radically rolled-back time, would be an automatic experience of any t-p receiver, would have to happen in order for him to receive . This surely would be more evident if it was not a person normally sensitive to t-p info transfer; someone like me who never normally got info by telepathy would experience a unique and surprising transformation in time and not understand why . Normal telepaths probably would have become accustomed to it . My sense of time changes (in terms I guess of density) would indicate a strong artificial sending system and little if any natural sensitivity in me . This indicates that rather than me having hyped up my input they hyped up their output: as means, they created dense time around me, and thus were able to transmit . I infer from this (assuming all I've figured out in this sequence is correct so far) that Dr. NK or someone anyhow, and probably someone connected with Pulkovo,64 did in fact finally manage to figure out how to increase time density at will ,
All this indicates that (1) Telepathic transmission to me of info was the goal; (2) Increasing the density of time around me was the means; (3) I was an effect cause, which explained why I felt so much under duress, and acting out adventitious command . I probably was . But that's not the whole story . (4) Probably it was Pulkovo, or related to it . Why me? Ubik, no doubt; the fact that it resembled Dr. NK's work—even seemed to parody it . Chance (a meaningful acausal Logos Effect) coincidence brought the novel and me to their attention . The Logos' purpose was achieved in all this, though, since the Logos foresaw all this when it imprinted the ideas into me originally (in 1968). Thus, it caused Lem (et al .) to take an interest in Ubik and to invite me to come to Poland, and all else that happened . The Logos' purposes were always served in this primarily, since it excited us all into what we did initially; we all were doing the Lord's work, so to speak, being brought to salvation individually and helping in the general Plan; thus we who were secular scientific and left wing came around to an awareness of the Logos, and, as Heraclitus says ,
And so it came to be, at least for me . Throughout all this the Logos was preemptive in time and in authority and in will and in teleology; and it triumphed through us not despite us . Using this multiplex human project as its plastic medium, the Logos ignited at last a dazzling triumph for dignity, for justice, for understanding and for truth above all (
In his article, Dr. NK states that (1) Time is an energy which enters material systems; (2) It maintains everything; (3) It is everywhere simultaneously; and therefore (4) It can transmit information everywhere telepathically; and (5) In this fashion it probably transmits instinctive knowledge to living creatures, all biological entities; and (6) It is even possible that it regulates and informs and harmonizes inanimate
If we can see identity between Dr. NK's Time then there is no problem in explaining the entry (even a preemptive entry) into any successful time-density activity by the Logos, outsmarting long in advance man's own personal plans . By definition, by affecting a massive density in time they are involving the Logos, which is already informed (i.e., whatever information might be artificially trans ferred telepathically, this is the normal method used by the Logos to assist and inform living creatures anyhow; the artificial
The dream about James-James certainly expressed what I saw in 3-74: with the Creator producing first solar flares (or the atom and its moving parts), then from it the baby, and then evolving from the baby Kathy . But that he had to injure Tessa (because she stood up to see his act better) —this was what I saw as an objection to linear forward moving time and continual creation anyhow: that in the powerful huge surging-forward drive of life, so many creatures are wounded and crippled, left to die, behind the flock . And in my dream I asked for help, and none of the thousands sitting around to form an attentive audience for James-James would lift a finger, despite my appeals . But then the wide glass doors opened, and the first scouts entered the great building.
I said to them, and they came toward me; small as they were, and only the first vanguard, they did represent another force, one which heard and responded . Surely this is a dream-drama expression of the retrograde force which is the other game-player and which I construe as either the Logos or Christos or the Holy Spirit—and which to me is the good although so far weaker of the two players . Certainly the dream showed me clearly that the primary miracle, the one which of necessity must precede all others, is the miracle of life born out of the unliving, the miracle of creation itself; then the movement up the evolutionary scale, from form to higher form to highest form; this surely is the primary work of the universe, to do this, its hardest, first, and most solemn task, over which nothing else can take precedence . How can anyone question that? But although there must be a flock to go on (the species, I guess, or all life), before there can be those who fall back too weak or sick to keep up—this in the dream was so damn clear: one person out of thousands in that auditorium caused trouble, stood up (against James-James rules) and was thrust back down and crippled . The ratio of success to failure was maybe 10,000 to 1 . So I am concerned with that 1, and stepped forward, halting James-James and his continual miracles of evolving creation (certainly the most extraordinary event I've seen in dream time or waking time, ever). I was asking for medical attention, not for me or for her, but for us.
But regarding possible time dysfunctions (due either to experiments at, e.g., Pulkovo, or natural, due to overloading of the ontological matrix, or both), most of my experiences have had to do, not with time, but with space (mostly about Mexico or what resembles Mexico and is taken to be). Future space at some future time? The only for sure time dysfunction I felt was in March 74, and that was, if it existed at all, probably artificially obtained (Pulkovo). The other, spatial ones—they probably were natural dysfunctions, sudden brief windows into the future of both space and time . What is possible, though, as I've said before, is the notion of mytosis-like
It's as if the merely potential (i.e., discarded at one or more critical junctions along the linear time-line) has come into a periodic shimmering realization, alongside what is actual (vide William James65 on the sea of potential facts around each actualized fact—each that, so to speak, makes it). Like in my story The Commuter . Also, there is to me the real thought that adjustments (à la Adjustment Team) are being made in our past, which are to an ever increasing degree making a certain alternate present (or time line) actual—in place of the one we have, not alongside it . I sense a series of minute tinkerings going on (vide Peter Mann's conversation with me recently on that idea). They are realigning our reality so it will conform to what the Plan (Logos) called for, thus losing the error fact, finally, which crept in . I suppose they could be making this critical correction back as far as 100 A.D. Just for story purposes, let us suppose a time-traveling team from our future has gone back to 45 A.D. to see to it that Jesus is not crucified . When the Parousia are finished with us, the time line we have will not even be remembered; our memories will be retaped to fit our newly made past, as well as present, and, as in Commuter, we will be relieved that
[ 5:54] I am less in doubt that this was the Parousia (I am not in doubt about that at all; it is exactly what Jesus and Paul anticipated, if not John) than I am in doubt—in perplexity—as to whether it was solely in my own world, my idios kosmos, that it took place . Does the koinos kosmos remain the same? I don't think, really, that it has . But no one else that I know of saw what I saw, which by general standards at the very least limits it to a subjective experience, a personal one, for me alone . I think that seeing the signals around me firing, the living organism, may have been what Malachi meant by
etc .; suddenly He was within everything, and visible, at least to me.
As in Frolix 8—the change rushes across the world, the way I saw the black band rush across the sky on Good Friday: the band that joined the old universe with the new...and in that instant as I and Laura watched, I understood that we were on film, on a loop . This 3-hour strip rushing at so high a speed—it tied the two ends together . And started the sequence anew . Thus, back in 1962, my first mystic understanding of Easter, and of the Death of Christ, the dead god—in the bonds of death
etc.66—I saw it then . What I saw then was real and I knew it then to be real; what I experienced in 1974, which was maybe 12 years later—at the same time of year...it was real, too . We can maybe resolve this when we ask, When you play your LP of Beethoven's 7th symphony, is it a different performance each time? Does von Karajan repeat it? One hears it again and again, but it is the same: like the archetype, printing out: the die stamping . What we hear is the print.
( 2) There would be a writing backward system by which the person would be presented, for engramming-on purposes, lesser fragments of forms the larger fragments of which he will encounter later—that is, later for him . Thus, his encounter-line would be arranged backward to the direction he himself experiences it, the way a mystery novel is written . What he has had, and possibly lost, which would make the term restoration meaningful to him, would so to speak be deliberate clues presented ahead of time (early in his life) with the full knowledge that these were the certain experiential items he would later on come onto . The interesting part of this is that he could be easily, almost effortlessly, engrammed in a random fashion, yet have the sense of total meaning . Here is a synthetic example: let us say that at the end of his life-line he winds up in the Lusitania Hotel which is in the shape of a boat and has cherrywood furnishings including broom plants (Acacia) as the floral items . Intrinsically neutral in value (these are virtually a pattern-less collection of elements) they would, for him, acquire meaning—Bedeutung—if one were to place early in his life small replicas of these constituents: one would see to it that as a child he grew up for a few months—long enough to create engramming—in a yard with flowering Acacia, which is really a weed, and that he watched a film on the sinking of the Lusitania on his family's TV set...and so forth, seeing to it that there was a vast wasteland of these items, so to speak, until the glide pattern part of his life . Finally he would begin to encounter these dear long lost engrammed-on bric-a-brac, and have a deep sense of cosmic completeness . Thus any life, theoretically, could be given a subjective sense of completeness and meaning and purpose and wholeness just by seeing to it that retrograde clues of what was in the natural course of events to happen along were stuck here and there at very early strategic points . The economy of these would be beautiful, since one would simply work backward from the solution, i.e., the end as pure random given.
Being a novelist I can appreciate how easily this could be done; the or dinary person would suppose that the tinkering to produce a wholeness would be done at the end (i.e., the final elements in time would be placed there to conform with the very early childhood ones), but of course it's the other way; at an early age certain gestalts would be stuck in, and at this point the child's worldview, his sense of reality, in fact his reality, would be so hazy that he would accept anything; there could be no rejection of any item as out of context God could stick a sardine can in the middle of the sky, and the 2-year-old would gaze at it with awe (as we would) but with total acceptance (which we would not). God could see to it that these key (and they need be only a few) engrammed-on items could be striking—would leave a vivid impression, and a lasting (for obvious reasons) effect . The child, as he grew up, would find himself wondering, every so often, why the yellow blossoms of the Acacia plant seemed so significant to him and lingered in his memory tapes, after much else had dimmed...and then finally he would delight in re-encountering the Acacia plant, at the Lusitania Hotel, and marvel that he had somehow
or better, more accurately ,
( In my life, this would be why I always remembered the name of my babysitter, Olive Holt, when the names of most teachers afterwards were forgotten . It was because that name
This is an example of a process which I saw in 3-74 as a major process in the universe: it plays its hand (so to speak) in such a nonlinear way that the pattern is never visible until the final sections or even section is lowered (or raised) into place—one can't even tell, for a long time, maybe a lifetime, that there is/are pattern (s) at all . What is given is not given in sequence, anyhow not in causal sequence, or any 1,2,3,4 sequence . The significance, therefore, of any element early in the game, which is to say, in life, cannot be assessed; one can dream at any time a dream the events and things of which although impressive and vivid admit to no understanding—until the missing integers show up subsequently . So selective, so intelligent is the method of play, that every guess as to the meaning of a partial pattern is brought to ignominious ruin when the true (completed) pattern is visible, and one must hang on, and hang on, waiting for that last piece . Thus, things seem to turn into their opposites, or anyhow into what they were not, as an additional piece is added; and each gestalt is a sub section of a larger gestalt embracing several gestalts . We therefore can reason that if we watch the universe in its process, its continual creation, we cannot guess what shape it will assume when complete until it is complete—it could turn from a short fat mean dull dry universe to a thrilling warm green hat-shaped one, with the addition of a single sly piece, and God Himself could show a complete visage which was quite different from the semblance up to then...this might provide a new clue as to unreality reality: the latter is anything correctly apprehended, which is to say, when it—I repeat it—is complete; until then, no matter how scrupulously observed, it would be less than real; it would be illusion? A phantom? The not-real, anyhow . It would not really achieve is-ness or true being, but only have temporal (!!!) function or mode until then . The false work
Theorem: That which we call illusion not real
[ 5:67] When I look back on those first days in 3-74 when I saw Rome around me, not Fullerton, and specifically the Rome of the period of Christ's time, and saw its angry military hostility, I was equally aware (and this is what I tend to forget) of my own identity standing in opposition to it; hence its hostility toward me—the scurrying of its agents were specifically hostile toward me, and I had to work in stealth, e.g., in baptizing Christopher et al . The other end of the dipole was my own new identity, not merely the new
What is involved is a restoring, a new life which is the igniting by means of the penetrating of the solar spermatikos68 of what had lain dormant, asleep over two thousand, maybe five to ten thousand years; it could not wake itself up—like the root or bulb called to by spring (by the healing warming Sun of Righteousness) it had to be summoned . If new birth or new life refers to a restoring (which it does) then at one time that Healing Sun was present and somehow withdrew, at which time the higher life in us fell asleep, in the darkness (vide the pineal body secreting the hormone melatonia, in darkness, which impedes the expansion, the growth, the coming into activity, of the latent form or entelechy). The very idea of Wake up implies winter time and the slumbering during winter time of all life . In some fashion, however, we once were awake and then fell asleep, which is what the Greeks meant by Lethe, by forgetfulness; forgetfulness is equated with falling asleep, and waking up with anamnesis . I guess the nourishing and feeding by the solar spermatika is understandable when one realizes that all life is fed
I awoke abruptly to find myself with my Savior, and then entered Fellowship with God (the dreams of the delighting void). Can it be said that this is the rebirth, accomplished by penetration of the Child by the solar spermatikos? Yes . Firebright, brought to life and sustained Greater intelligence for me, better health, longer life, even prosperity . A certain facility with life . But most of all I recall what I saw when I awakened: I saw my God, smiling in the sunlight of day . Once, during the years of the Terrible Separation, I saw Palmer Eldritch in the Sun—I saw God backward, but sure enough, in the daytime sun: at high noon, and knew him to be a god . The Three Stigmata, if read properly (i.e., reversed) contains many clues as to the nature of God and to our relationship with him . I was motivated to flee, then, fearing what I saw, so vast was the breach then . It was definitely a true vision of God, but grown (to my blind sight) terrible; still, it was the beginning of my seeing; that I could see God at all, in the sun, showed that I was not entirely blind, but rather deranged . My 3-74 experiences are an outgrowth of my Palmer Eldritch experience of over ten years earlier.
[ 5:69] This news (in Psy . Today69) about the pineal body being a light receiving organ or gland is so exciting to me because it means that the chromatic phosphene source I experienced did not merely go to the light-sensitive part of my brain, but also to my pineal gland.... My brain saw the phosphene activity and was dazzled and delighted; however, probably as far as the brain itself went, it ended there . Not so for my pineal body; it responded (which is what it does; see article in Psy . Today) to what it received from the optic nerve, accepting it not as entertainment but as signal . (Disinhibiting, no doubt .) Probably all melatonia production (for openers) was halted, it being an inhibiting secretion . I guess I saw the Other Sun ,
Nurturing . I am not, rather than merely being nurtured (by the Earth, etc .) but nurturing Firebright within me (a Yinnish matter: hence this is why I got K'un as my trigram, K'un and Tui,70both female). This is the normal growth-line of an organism: it is born, and must, as an incomplete, ungrown infant, be nurtured . Gradually, as it grows, it moves toward nurturing rather than being nurtured; final entelechy completion would be for it to nurture, be a parent . This is logically visible in all higher organisms . (We call this giving receiving .) What the Gospels stress when they repeat the concept of giving in so many ways is nurturing, which is giving . The parent (mother or female) gives of her own body in this . The reason the Gospels emphasize the female values is not for receptivity alone (which is the first step, before implantation) but after the reception of the seed, then the nurturing . So long as one takes, one is not full grown, and certainly not yet a parent (of the Spiritual, Immortal body within). One becomes the mother
One could speculate that this is the purpose of human beings: Why We Are Here—to serve as the recipient female mothers for the implantations of the solar spermatika, the divine seeds . Curiously, this would bear on Doris' point about the item in Catholic Agitator71 that Jesus' healing activities were not only primary, it was that which most crucially angered the Romans . * I asked her ,
Well, if these bodies are to serve as the wombs for the solar spermatika, then healing such a body would be
Prophecy: seeing into . The past is within things (as in Ubik). Again, the onion rings universe . Where is the past? Within what we see, at the hearts . All reality is like some great Indian burial garbage mound, like layers or accretions, at Troy, successive . Not behind but below.
Like in the 3 pages I sent Angus . Palimpsest . Well, if the past is within what we see (smaller concentric rings, constricted) perhaps one can reason that the future consists of larger rings than that which makes up our perceptual present; vide Plotinus . The next concentric ring of emanation would be the future...strange . Which we reach toward, and which reciprocally reaches down to assist us, as I inferred about the space people
You are to be meek ,
This borders on the Sufi: becoming God . One does become
Well, I have certainly (through Doris' help) made a distinction between two opposite sequential states; my experience began when I was
which was meekness (I got it right, picked up paw talk, etc .), and then came the chromatic fire . That was when I received God or God's Power or Spirit, the Yang upon me-as-Yin . Possession of me by the God took place, as Ted Sturgeon says in Venus Plus X or whatever, this being what was really sought at the Feast of Agape . * No wonder they say, as Doris points out, God is love! Wow, He sure is! It is a (ahem) mating (again vide Yeats' poem
By following all the admonitions of the Gospels, one literally courted the great masculine Father deity so that he literally possessed the Christian . From this (receiving the Holy Spirit, as they put it euphemistically) they got various powers: healing, prophecy, ability to discern, and were made Righteous, which I experienced as a thirst for Truth and Justice and doing the right thing.
yes, but those who were possessed were also the
Ursula accuses me of getting away from Taoistic balance
My sense that Firebright has gone on only means that He, a half Light, Half Human creature, is now strong enough to leave the womb ,
There is no doubt that, what with my right hemisphere experiments, I was trying to achieve something—and perhaps did . Received something; receiving was part of what I was into, the idea that we could, if we listened in a new way (or a forgotten way). Where did the
