[ 56: G-35] But I think the element that is the greatest shock is the recognition of the familiar, as if (or even because) all else stems from it . Familiar are two aspects of one fact . (This is true, really, of the other realizations: the illusory nature of space, time and plurality; there is really only one realization—that of the familiar—but it has implications in all these other areas, space, time, change, multiplicity .) The reversal, then, of what I call cognitive estrangement cognitive affinity has precisely to do with this familiarity: how can you be estranged from what is familiar? And ultimately it is your own nature that you know, since for this unitary, eternal, unchanging thing to be familiar, there must of necessity be a you to which it is familiar: a you who saw and knew and understood it before; so now you understand that there was a you and there was a before—but since time and space have been abolished, before either means nothing or it means something quite different than is usually meant—as I pointed out in my two February '81 postcards . That you before
[ 56: H-10] This business about the atomists suggesting that the void between objects is the is-not: is it possible that before the atomists there was not a perception of plural discrete bodies, i.e., res extensae as we all now experience world—that in fact we as a civilization inherited as a way of experiencing reality the atomists' way? Not just as a philosophy but a way of actually viewing reality? (This is in sharp contrast to Parmenides specifically, who experienced a field .) And that now, due to post-Newtonian physics, we may be able to reverse this perception and return to a field perception instead? And this would collate with the time that Heidegger assigns to the darkening! And that this is what happened to me in 2-3- 74; after all, due to the Taoist influences on me I was conceiving of reality as a unified field when I wrote TMITHC with internal acausal connectives—what I believed, I finally experienced, and the entrance for me lay in two areas
[ 56: H-23] When I saw Valis I also saw the sentience (Noös) which the view of the atomists had logically driven out of the universe, by showing that consciousness and perception are epiphenomenal; therefore the atomists were materialists of necessity . So when I perceived and comprehended the universe as a continuum, it was a thinking continuum, as it had been for all the pre-Socratics prior to Leucippus . One view (atomists) must of necessity deny Noös, but why does the continuum view imply noös? Perhaps the answer is: noös is there—in world—but the atomist—discontinuous—view prevents us from perceiving it...because our worldview literally prevents us from seeing what is there: the voluntary sentient cooperation of things (which aren't things in the atomist's discontinuous sense); we see pool-ball Newtonian causation instead . Thus my two early satoris were logically and structurally related: having to do with space, having to do with causation . This all pertains to the discontinuous-continuum alternatives: the void
[ 56: H-25] To hold the continuum view of the Eleatics satisfies two quite different criteria: (1) it is a return to Heidegger's unity of noein and einai before the darkening, i.e., to Parmenides' worldview, so it is authentic Sein; and (2) it is in accord with modern physics, so it is verified, and it is not abreactive.46 Then the darkening is ending (and I see in this the third dispensation regarding the ecosphere, a concept only possible in the continuum cosmos
[ 56: J-6] He has ensouled the biosphere as a whole . The logos, penetrating it, endows it with reason; thus it now uses language (logos = word = language). This is the greatest evolution since creation—Genesis—itself; man as a species now ascends to a totally new level of intelligence, such as I experienced in 2-3-74 . This will permit an articulation by the ecosphere that we will hear . This has never been the case before . I am saying that we will hear the voice of the ecosphere and we will enter into dialogue with it; Dio!
The conflagration of the world foretold as its eschatological fate (
[ 56: J-29] We are embedded in a tremendously elaborate biosphere or even noösphere (as Teilhard calls it) already, but cannot discern it due to our discontinuous view of reality, our materialist-atomist blindness . Were it to signal us we would most likely experience—or rather seem to experience—the sort of uncanny one-way information intrusions such as occur in Ubik . It is aware of us and our involvement in it, but we are not; thus, where it deliberately signals us we would note the signal and react appropriately but have no notion—nor even perception—what—if anything—had done the signaling . Thus (probably) we would experience what Bishop Berkeley speaks of as the impression that objects seen are in our eyes rather than spatially removed . [...] It would be as if the visible (or anyhow palpable) signal came out of an invisible yet tangent—i.e., immediate—source . But the problem stems from the very basis of our discontinuous worldview; signals and especially information would seem to arise (1) out of nothing; and (2) immediately at hand; as I say, as if in our own percept systems, yet at the same time partaking of Other, of the external . It would be a paradox, and one only solvable at the most fundamental ontological level of world experience; we would have to learn to see (or see) what is in fact there in what I call the Eleatic continuum worldview in which the void is denied: viz: there is no such thing as nothing.
You could even reason that it would be this impinging of signals and information at the sense organ itself, out of (apparently) nothing that would be our clue to the inadequacy of our fundamental apperception of reality, like the frogs KW speaks of bopping against what for them is an invisible wall—because they have no template for wall . logic
[ 56: J-34] (Pronoia): affectionate behavior by world . [Agape] ) strange orthogonal thought, following the sudden thought ,
[ 56:1a] 2-3-74 was: I was not just in contact with God—I was in the mind of God, Kosmos Noetos47: world became
[ 56:19a] The intellect—as opposed to the senses—can know the true nature of world—not because of some occult power in the intellect—but because the true nature of world is intelligible in itself (as the Pythagoreans taught: ratio and mathematical truth, not a substance but structure). There is, then, a one-to-one correspondence between the human intellect and the true nature of world, and this explains the meta-abstraction: why it re vealed the true nature of world to me (and my own nature to myself). The true structure of the universe is cognate to human reasoning, and this is the paradigm of Pythagoras and his insight upon hearing the anvil struck . Thus my exegesis with its emphasis on the reasoning faculty, the meta-abstraction, the overcoming of cognitive estrangement is by no means a waste of time or a blind alley but is pure Platonism, the meta-abstraction being noesis acquired through anamnesis . One might even say that the meta-abstraction is not only a revelation of how the universe is constructed but that it is an intelligible structure and that the human reason is able to comprehend it—and it is precisely this that overcomes cognitive estrangement
My god, this movie is the greatest defeat (what was done to the book) and victory (the Tagore kerygma promulgated); the first is ostensible, the latter cryptic . Oddly, the first appears ostensibly to be a victory but is really a defeat; nonetheless a real victory lurks secretly under it, but it is not the victory that people will think the making of a movie from my book is . They will say ,
The Tagore vision is a summation of all that has gone before . Looking at Pinky there toward the end and seeing the passion, seeing Christ humiliated and dying—that was not one vision among many; that was not an aspect of a vision: that was the core of it, the beating heart of it all; when that is coupled with the revelation of the Logos in camouflaged form invading reality (the ecosphere) and transubstantiating it—add these two together, and there it all is . This is not quite the same as Jesus Patibilis; it is a new revelation of something dynamic: a process of conquest . Ah; last night I saw in my mind the Godhead moving into the animal kingdom, and I saw the vast joy that the Godhead experienced in receiving that fallen, lower kingdom (domain) back; not the joy of and by that kingdom, but the joy of and by the Godhead; the Godhead moved into that lower kingdom and inhaled it, drew it back in by it—the Godhead—advancing into that lower, fallen kingdom long separated from the Godhead; and what beauty! The colors, the love; bliss itself, by the Godhead, to receive back that domain with all the life in it . This was a vision of what I had seen in 3-74 of Valis (the Logos) invading reality; there I saw it with my outer eyes, externally, but last night it was an inner vision, and I had forgotten it until this moment; I experienced the joy and love on the part of the Godhead to do this thing, not what was done for the animal kingdom but what the Godhead felt . Colors, as Dante describes the Trinity in Paradiso: the varicolored rings of light; I saw that like rings of Saturn advancing into the animal domain.
A strange and mysterious strategy: to put the new kerygma in a novel published in the late sixties but then disclosed to me only now, toward the end of 1981, but just at the time that we get the signed contract with the Blade Runner people to rerelease the novel in conjunction with the film—as if the VALIS trilogy has diverted everyone's attention, my own included, like when the thought came to me that the true message was in Frozen Journey
What is being studied? A usurper is on the throne . The rightful king (who is younger) appears as a madman, criminal or fool; he is mysterious; his nature and origins are uncertain . He is arrested and tried . (I should say falsely arrested .) Interrogated by the old king (usurper). He is charged with a crime he did not commit . The resolution varies; sometimes he is acquitted and assumes the throne; sometimes he is killed . The white-haired old king on horseback may be the murdered father of the young man who is the rightful heir to the throne; he returns to seek justice: punishment of the usurper; the son placed on the throne . This story is told and retold . Why? What are we supposed to learn? That the ostensible ruling power of this world is illegitimate? The King is not in fact the true king? And the fool is not mad or a fool or a criminal but is the rightful king? My analysis: everything we see is a 180-degree mirror opposite of the truth . The ostensible king is not only not the true king, he also has no actual power: despite appearances his power is illusory . * All true power belongs to the fool who is the true king (vide The Bacchae). This is all some sort of play—which Hamlet very clearly alludes to . We are to guess the riddle: Who is the true king? (And hence, who really rules, i.e., who has power?) This strikes me as some sort of religious pageant or initiatory rite or ritual into a hidden truth deliberately concealed from the many . Only what are called the elect are let in on the true state of affairs . Who, then, qualifies as one of the elect
Well, this idea is not new or original but, rather, my first understanding of sin, hell, salvation, grace and justification! As orthodoxy regards all these . Justification saves the person who otherwise is doomed; he does not save himself (e.g., by good works): the power to save lies in God . Thus, if indeed it is the case that in 2-3-74 I was justified, then though my own conscience accuse me, I am not merely called justified but am, through God (God's grace) saved in fact—I mean, justified in fact; I am changed through Christ . Jesus Christ, then, is paradigmatic of the saved/justified person, who was often called by the Reformers a Christ
If we are indeed here in this world, as I suspect, to be fashioned and shaped, to become (our einai established forever), then justification is the finishing of this, the sudden perfecting, and is the logical outcome of what we are here for . God has judged, closed the books; the person has been made by God acceptable, in the twinkling of an eye . Now my statement that
[ 55: L-35] I just remembered (5:45 P.M.) a right-hemisphere graphic image in hypnagogic sleep last night: I had been thinking about the two coaxial worlds in which one—hidden—is Christ's kingdom . All of a sudden I saw a network of red threads forming a vascular system, as in our bodies; at the same time this was also a growing arborizing vine constantly becoming more and more intricate; and it was like the mycelia of a mushroom . This intersticing arboring network (I realized when I saw it) grows invisibly within our world, and this is what I saw as the plasmate, Christ's blood as living information—literally saw . But here now I beheld it as a network, a structure so-to-speak invading or internally penetrating our reality invisibly, and ever growing and becoming more complex . This is both Christ and his kingdom, and in 3-74 I had done a set-ground discrimination of it—this is what Jesus meant when he referred to himself as the true vine
[ 55:3-2] We are told in the synoptics that indeed the secret is kept from the many and revealed to the few; this is explicit . As the operation of heaven is for the nepioi and ptochoi and not for the proud (i.e., all others) it follows that only the former will ever know that the answer to the Tears riddle is the case . Here is why: if all people understood that by following Jesus' teachings—which seem to be self-sacrifice absolutely—one acquires the support of the absolute power of heaven, then self-interest not morality would impel men, all men, to follow the way, and summarily the moral aspect would be engulfed by the pragmatic and practical, and an ethical system would succumb to the degradation of personal ambition . Thus the secrecy theme
[ 55: X-4] Last night at Juan's the God told me :
The God brings joy into the world and overthrows the reign of the old, former King of tears; it is the procession of the ages from iron—Pentheus and the BIP—to gold: Zagreus-Jesus in the Garden and the animals . The newborn King who
But there is a point I am missing that is substantial and crucial: the axis of fool–holy fool–Christ completes itself not by evolution but by virtue of the fact that the fool, proven holy, is seized by Christ entering from outside—as perfectly expressed in the John Donne sonnet that Angel thinks of—significantly! —when she first sees Bill (
). Christ enters the holy fool and takes full possession of him, consuming him utterly, and this is the explanation and the event both that is the 3-part axis . Bill is not Christ; Bill is seized on by Christ and taken over by Christ; for a while there are two selves, Bill's and the extrinsic intruder.
What emerges here (in this theory) is a totally new explanation of 2-3-74 . Either there was massive selecting (for a time) or I became aware of massive selecting, that is, aware of the medium as interface between me and world (i.e., such massive selection always goes on, but we know it not, supposing all we experience to be properties of world and applying to the encounter with world by all persons uniformly). Now, a powerful but by no means invincible argument can be offered that due to my meta-abstraction in 2-74 (that is, due to a sudden titanic insight) I comprehended something about world that makes it possible for me on my own to fathom the presence of this selecting interface . The meta-abstraction would (perhaps) then have been that there was a pluralized signal system at the point of origin (world) but that only one set normally reaches me, which says a lot about world, but also presumes a selecting interface . Thus world is radically redefined but, more, the interface is realized and its selecting (suppressing, enhancing) activity, and this is God (Valis). So what comes of this meta-abstraction pertains to epistemology (
in terms of world) but yields up by implication a much more radical notion—that in fact world qua world is less an issue than the interface itself that lies between us and world and passing the power selectively to determine what of world impinges on us and what, contrarily, is suppressed—whereupon (I think) I found myself dealing with the interface itself, and this is theophany . As if, upon my becoming aware of it, it could then speak
It is possible that world qua world consists of eternal constants, and the interface modulates our reception in extraordinary ways and to extraordinary degrees, e.g., your being in A.D. 70 in Syria or USA 1974 depends only on the interface, on its selecting . World and interface, then, are quite distinct . Malebranche's epistemological premise, then, is quite the case :
Because the power to bestow and withhold knowledge of what is truly there (the answer to
Which is to say that the interface is somehow in us and in world; so the interface simply recycles our own mind back to us over and over again; the prison gate of isolation—of the atomized self—closes once more (this is dealt with in Frozen Journey). Thus we know others only through the grace of God (as in the beetle satori), and this pertains of salvation: to know others—just as hell pertains to isolation . Then knowledge of God as other is knowledge of ultimate other and is the triumph and consummation of the axis of salvation that began, for me, with the beetle satori . If (agape) equals empathy then there is only one road to salvation; in its partial form it deals with and pertains to finite creatures (but is real): in its complete form (absolute, realized form) it pertains to God; this is an axis . What and who one has loved in world (love
[ 55: Z-8] Extinct
Christic Institute.49 All the way back to Tears: the Acts
It is alive because it draws on and from the very thoughts of the creation trapped in it; his efforts to solve it are thoughts, and it is these thoughts that fuel
[ 55: D-85] I was treated to a demonstration of YHWH: thought, word and reality were one, with no ideation separate from the word and no difference between the word—what I said—and the deed; it was the deed . Moreover, there was absolute a priori knowing (about Denise, about Tess). And this unitary thing
What I have been calling the meta-abstraction
Thus (as I say) wisdom and morality and the preservation of the cosmos—universal rules—become one . My radical new comprehension stems from sharing God's view of reality and morality as a unitary thing
[ 55: D-115] This means that my lifetime search in plumbing the depths of suffering in order to unravel its mysteries has proven successful . This relates to the rat, the beetle, the burning Japanese soldier, the Galapagos turtle; this has to do with empathy—my empathy—which is another word for agape: and agape is the greatest of the Christian virtues, as Paul tells us: it is the true way of the Christian . But why? Because it is good, i.e., a virtue? * Not exactly . Agape is a road along which one travels in imitation of Christ, to penetrate to the core—deepest ontological layer—of suffering (his passion and crucifixion), and there, if you follow that road—and that road only—you arrive at the secret: the Resurrection—which is the miraculous conversion of suffering into ecstasy, which is uniquely the Christian miracle; this is how Christianity and Christianity alone solves the problem of suffering . This solution is not a philosophical, intellectual understanding (e.g., why there is suffering) but an event: the dramatic conversion of suffering, not into mere stoic apathy, the mere lack of suffering, but into its affective and ontological bipolar opposite: ecstasy—and here, precisely, Dionysus-Zagreus enters; Jesus is
[ 55: D-132 ]
If every thing, event and act extends into infinity (the eternal) would this (principle alone) not explain 2-3-74 and the
meta-abstraction? That is, I saw world correctly, extended into the infinite, the absolute, eternal, i.e., as Spinoza 's
[ 55: D-146] To say that it extends into infinity does not imply immense physical size; it enters into infinite implications, significance, meaning, which is to say it is as I saw in 2-3-74: it is typological (or archetypal). This is precisely the 2-74 meta-abstraction, for it has a permanent and ubiquitous ramification . Thus many places and times work off it . It applies over and over again . It is into this attribute that scripture taps . This is how sacerdotal performance works . The significance axis (is) always the same . (For each paradigmatic thing, event, act, situation .) (1) By same what is meant is unitary . The key term is [is] resembles is a realization of this . Surely this is what Plato surnamed eidē . If what is involved here is that which is signified (by a thing, event, act, situation) then there is a sign-to-object relationship between the word and writing of word mode and object: the word (info) which we take to be the object—thing signified—does not in itself contain the significance that is in the true thing but only refers to it . (The word dog does not itself have hair, feet, a tail .) Thus when we see info as object it lacks the significance that the infinity attribute (true object) possesses, analogous to hair, feet and tail on a particular dog . Now, in a sacerdotal act (a sacrament) the significance in the act is precisely what is sought for; the object and what is said and done in connection with the object is summoned deliberately—so in a sacerdotal act what I call the infinity attribute is apprehended, or at least the attempt is made to apprehend it—that is the entire point . Well, this is precisely what happened to me in 2-74 in seeing the golden fish sign: an object (that was really only an informational sign pointing to an object) was comprehended by me in this sacerdotal sense—which from a liturgical sense is comprehensible; but what is not comprehensible is that I saw all reality this way: as sign not thing, whereupon (by definition) reality became a sacrament, every building, person, event . No conventional theological explanation will account for this (since such a transformation should be limited to designated sacerdotal objects and acts). What is obvious is that what is done—sought for—with the sacraments (and often achieved) is equally true for any thing, act, situation, event: all reality viewed collectively as an aggregate of plurality; that is, as reality per se . This should not be possible . And, moreover, ordinary reality taken as such without this enhancement becomes mere information . So two things have happened: ordinary reality can now be viewed as a sign (information, word, writing) pointing to another kind of reality (object) entirely that is primarily defined, not by its trans-spatial and trans-temporal quality, but by its meaning . It is a significant reality in which meaning is everything, like a sacred drama . Now, this is not Plato's eide . This is something else . This means that everything extends into this dimension, but that the attempt to summon it, being confined to stipulated sacerdotal objects and acts, does not reveal this to us . What I claim for this dimension or mode or attribute is meaning or significance, and this definition when scrutinized really asserts that that which truly is is revealed; viz: the meaning is not implied, referring to something else, as in a symbol or sign that has been given a referral value; the meaning is in the dimension now perceived and this meaning is self-authenticating and self-revealing: it discloses its own story by itself, requiring no interpretation or analysis: it is open . In fact, it is open
[ 68: L-10] The palpable situation that I now (12/9/81) perceive and in which I am not just actively but wholeheartedly involved is (I suddenly realized) the revealed apocalyptic situation of 2-3-74: it is Armageddon, with the true Christians pitted against the Empire in terms of what I call the demonic trinity
[ 68: L-12] The apocalyptic vision has come true really only since Reagan took office; just recently the whole tone of reality has shifted drastically: as I said recently ,
That final last movement for the 13th quartet Beethoven wrote keeps showing up (as it were: i.e., being played) on KPFA, and Owl is invariably terrified by it—he knows not why . Golly: I'd even be parodying VALIS in my absurdist treatment of the search—Faustian search—for knowledge (salvation through gnosis, which seems to be my own downfall). Owl feels superior to all the other people
The trouble with Owl, the plasma points out, is that in a way he's too clever; he's outsmarting his own maze—which after all was built not to trap or punish him but to teach him and help him problem solve; but all he does is sniff out (1) that it's a forgery (in which I parody my own 10 volume meta-novel!) and (2) that a vast God like intelligence
The alien mind introduction is the whole resolution of the novel . It brings Owl to his fourth period through the Ditheon psyche.➊ But he tells the plasma ,
The crippled dwarf Nick Nicholson in the construct; he is based on someone Owl really knew in the actual world . Under wartime government law he is put to sleep
Could there be something like in Frozen Journey where the plasma (ship) confers with Mary (Martine Kemmings)? She is like Hoffmann's muse Nicklausse in Tales.51 She could be a government monitoring agent, whose job it is to see that Owl—as an artistic resource—is protected . So she is not a creation of/by the plasma; she represents a government regulatory agency—as Mary Lorne represents the college in
The government (à la Ursula) is worried about Owl's mental health :
Since people don't age, formal rites of passage are very important; the stagnation problem is not unique to Owl by any means but is officially recognized . The
[ 73:54] Nothing is what it seems, but the war is between Christianity and the Empire; but what we call Christianity is the Empire, and the true Christians are a Celtic-Orphic mystery religion . Further, Christ's kingdom is the invisible secret Commonwealth
Slaying, not healing . The slaying even spread out to include Sophia, who is the Savior; the awful awesome power of YHWH is told of: it breaks out in all its destructiveness . Thus (I say) my 2-74 and 2-75 experience was that of Jacob Boehme and the dialectic in which the demonic power within God was revealed, and only the
