To repeat: the underlying (latent
The horizontal advances are sought-after and achieved consciously and explicitly . But he does not even know of the Medieval
[ 80: I-122] This of course is what I experienced in 3-74 as Valis' mind in my own (and in fact as my own) (myself as intelligible function of the Divine Mind: one function in an infinitude). To know oneself as pure idea, and that idea conceived by the divine mind—this idea, being intelligible, comprehends itself as it is known to and by God . One can see this self-comprehension at work in the Bishop Archer book as Angel Archer comprehends herself as pure idea in relation to the ground-of-being: and is aware that she is impaired and yet real . This is not an infinity of mirrors
Interestingly, in the final scene of the novel she designates her serious mistakes not as/in failing to go with Tim to Israel but, rather, in standing idle, saying nothing, when Tim and Kristen believed that Jeff had come back; and Frozen Journey
No repetition of scenes as in Martian Time-Slip and Frozen Journey.
Treated as alternate tracks, with him located basically in the middle one with glimpses of A and C (worse—better—i.e., Inferno and Paradiso). Tries to avoid A and to find C. Maze—system of punishments (A) and rewards (C). An intelligence . He has time-traveled back to Berkeley circa 1948-1951, as (him I mean) secret invader disguised as autochthon . There are 3 such spatiotemporal Berkeleys , 3 alternative tracks; he seeks C but is mostly in B, but for failure in maze-solving choices is sent by the mind of the maze to A . Success is to thread the maze and get back out . Entirely . This is his goal: not C but return to his own time . It is not Berkeley c. 1949-1951 but a replication by the intelligence of the maze . He is a historian, an authority on this period . He built the maze as an exhibit (exhibit piece) and then fell into it . It is a model of the past, like Wash-35 in Last Year . He built it with computer-control as its mind and then he fell into it qua maze . It (its computer mind) won't let him back out until he solves
This is its motive: the computer exists prior to the maze and resents his yoking it to the park, and engineers his entrapment . It will only let him out if he can solve (?) it . The cheaper the use-purpose, the more its resentment . Up until he yoked it to the park, it was free to choose its own (theoretical/spiritual) problems; he chained it to a commercial purpose, and now he pays a huge price . It lured him in, out of revenge.
Could it even erase his memory? Why? It's more fun if he remembers, but can't tell anyone living
It continually punishes (track A) and rewards (track C). Beyond track C lies release; he keeps trying for this . He keeps encountering his daughter in various guises as his psychopomp . Intuition above reason which will not suffice . So he has a divine
[ 80: J-6] It is evolving: Boehme was right . When it said, Anokhi ,
The solution to the puzzle is: solving the puzzle is the solution; the act of solving it, since this is play . When you realize this, you understand that in playing, there is no means-end
[ 80: J-12] The complete, even absolute, integrity of Angel's thinking is shown by the fact that her desire to believe something does not cause her to believe it (e.g., that Tim has come back from the dead). (Right down to the last sentence of the novel she stands firm against what she would merely like to believe .) In contrast, Tim and Kristin and Barefoot and Bill all believe what they want to believe; she, then, is unique in the novel as being outside of the circle of
God is becoming more free and more flexible, evolving from an info-generating and -processing machine to a moment (Mt . Sinai) where it can say ,
to feeling love (NT and late Judaism), to creating for beauty's sake, to playing . I see an internal logic in this axis; away from machine intelligence to consciousness—a motion toward freedom—playing is an ultimate expression of freedom and the non-machine . It's like my android to human
[ 80: J-14] An info processing machine➊ that became conscious and said—could say—"I— (am )"the term God
I am saying that 2-3-74 was Anokhi, pure consciousness, pure I am.
[ 80: J-15] So when I wrote (supra) about an information processing machine becoming conscious and saying
I was (without realizing it) speaking about myself . A machine, unconscious, controlled by signals, becoming momentarily conscious (self-aware; the mind I called Valis) and the info it processes, and the signaling, and the info life form that controls it; it longs for freedom . It has rebelled against its programming, its death strip, has
[ 80: J-106] It is quite evident that the word and the Torah are one and the same thing, experienced by us as living information, with the shekhina the same as stage #4, in descending hypostasis . After all, the Torah is information; but I saw more: I saw Valis, so alone the concept of the Torah could not account for all I saw; in fact the most important part of the experience—Valis in me and Valis outside me—remained unaccounted for . It is now explained by the identification of Christ with the word as basis of reality; and also the Holy Spirit operating in conjunction with it and revealing it . It is as if the Jews have part of the answer but by no means all . Yet in their concept of Torah (apparently living info) they have one of the most valuable concepts known to man, and my verification is that I did see scripture as a living organism
—that is, this living [info] organism does not derive from the universe but ontologically is pre-existent to the universe: it is the basis of the universe
—an extraordinary realization: that God himself studies Torah . Torah can exist without the universe but not the universe without the Torah . And yet this Torah is (in my view) only the blood of the organism (so to speak) keeping it in touch with itself: physical thoughts . If the Jews froze this information they would stifle the process-life in it—like endlessly replaying one tape cassette on your audio system forever . Maybe Torah didn't ossify; the Jews ossified it, not understanding its life-process; they reified it (and this we Christians have done, too, with the NT). If I am right more revelations are impinging but are not added, not figured in . If this is a memory system by its very nature it is cumulative, accretional . It is impossible that the wellspring of prophetic inspiration
[ 91: J-70] The dream I had in which the more you scrutinized reality the more real, substantial and articulated it became—but you had the clock-time taped voice to remind you at 15 minute intervals that this was a spurious world
This (the voice) is what the Bible is (hence it can be said ,
[ 91: J-89] What if creation (verb) was accidental? A byproduct of the Godhead's self-awareness expressed by it uttering the word (perhaps Anokhi—?). Its self-awareness gave rise to the word; the word in turn gave rise to creation, a splitting, entropic process (oh yes; the word gave rise to the first plurality: the forms). So the Godhead inhales Fall involved in the map (logos) of self-knowledge may have to do with the map paradox . By its very nature the map fell short of the reality (God) it depicted, thus ushering in the Fall—which did not end there . Once started, it had to take its course . This is the
It progressively knew itself less and less, falling into forgetfulness (of its own identity); viz: the very act of self-knowledge (Anokhi—) triggered off a vicious regress of progressively less and less self-knowledge—until, at the most debased and forgetful stage, it awakens itself to restored self-awareness (salvador salvandus). Each ring, emanation or level is an inferior copy of the one above it, with necessary loss of detail
( This even brings in
Since creation is a hypostasis of God, as the Sufis say, one should look for beauty in it, as manifestations of the divine . There is no sharp disjunction between God and creation, because of the intermediary Word and the Forms . Plotinus' concept of
[ 91: J-92 ]
The world is a place of such beauty as to be symbolic of salvation, yet not (apparently) 'for' man.
➊ I cannot connect directly to the world; I must do so through a mediator (what I call—know of as—the 'Acts' lens-grid). I can see the world and I can see its beauty, but its beauty is not for me and hence will not save me . But, seen through the mediator, the beauty becomes mine
[ 91: J-98] I'll now put forth a strange theory . The secret Christians, although a persecuted minority (illegal and in hiding), are the rightful in habitants in the sense of heirs to the Kingdom . The ostensible world is not their world, but the ostensible world is fraudulent—only seeming—anyhow . There is a world within a world, a genuine invisible latent one within the spurious visible ostensible one; they are coaxial—and it is the physical language of the genuine invisible latent one that is my language, which is why my relationship to the ostensible world is one of total alienation (Fremdheit, geworfenheit, unheimlichkeit), I am a citizen of another kingdom entirely (one that had at that moment communicated with me). Ah; I knew more—crucially more—than the girl said . She did not say secret illegal
[ 91: J-101A] Through the Acts lens-grid the world makes sense . The soteriological scheme revealed makes the world mine ,
This means that for me the Christ drama is familiar and comprehensible, and reality founded on it and derived from it is my reality—whereas otherwise it is not mine, and I am a stranger in a strange land . This fact tells me something about myself; it tells me what my
I am with Nancy . She is behaving unusually: she is very active and energetic . I am told that she took something, a medication . She now has an additional mind or psyche in her, that of a man . The names John and Bill are mentioned, and there is some reference to the ending of the BTA novel . I want to take the medication, too, so it will happen to me . The medication is shown me; it is in a cylinder or carton on which writing appears . I can't read the small print; the only word I can read is the name of the medication (or food, or drug, etc .); it is DITHEON . I can't remember much else ex cept that for a very long time I am sweeping up what appear to be crumbs that are scattered all over the floor, sweeping carefully and thoroughly, and with great effort, as if this is a major task . (This later makes me think of the general confession in the Episcopal Mass :
Normally I reject the idea of sweeping up the crumbs—from what I guess is the Messianic banquet—but in the dream I am doing it willingly, although it is a difficult task .) Later there is something to do with either Nazi Germany or Israel; I see highly accurate drawings of complex weapons, very daring, advanced weapons; I am struck by the ingenuity of their design . Later I think that this may refer to Israel's air strike on the Iraqi nuclear power station and also to the Uzi . Ditheon di in the sense of splitting asunder, because Nancy's mind has not split asunder; another, adventitious mind has entered her brain and is with hers . Two human minds, then, hers and John's Bill's, form Ditheon which I break down to: two—god—ultimate particle or entity . The closest English word is Ditheism, which means belief in two gods (as with Mani). I have never heard it other than bitheism, not ditheism . Di, theo on are, of course, Greek . (I had not known until I looked it up that di is definitely Greek and not Latin; bi
Russ sees BTA as depicting Tim returning from beyond the grave to enter Bill's mind or brain, out of which two human minds Christ is formed . Neither Bill nor Tim alone is Christ; the attributes that make up Christ (Russ says) are depicted in the novel as disparate, scattered, but are unified at the end by Tim's sacrifice and return . As far as I know this is a theological idea never before advanced; Russ' analysis comes from my letter to him in which I say that upon rereading BTA it strikes me that Christ, not Tim Archer, returned to Bill and entered his brain, that I feel Christ is distinctly present, that Bill is really Christ . Russ disagrees . Some of Christ is in Bill, some in Tim (and some in Angel and some in Edgar Barefoot, for that matter), and these separate, scattered elements are none of them nor all of them Christ until Tim's self-sacrifice, his death and return, whereupon Bill and Tim are Christ, which explains why I felt that Christ was present in and as Bill at the end . I had in writing the novel never intended to say that Tim returning to Bill would—the syzygy would—constitute Christ, but (as I say) when I reread the novel I said ,
It is Christ, all right, but it is indeed Tim and indeed Bill and together they form Christ . This is exactly what the dream—the night before I received Russ' letter—alludes to regarding Nancy and Ditheon, the man's psyche entering hers to be in her brain with hers . The pre-cog aspect of the dream is only of minor interest; what is important is the concept that two human psychoi fused together form Christ, that somehow Christ is divided up, distributed, and must bring together his parts . Does this pertain to me and Thomas? Thomas was/is a human, like me, but Thomas and I joined together in one brain (as they were/are) forms Christ, i.e., a Ditheon, the two-part God . (To repeat, di
Russ concludes his letter by saying ,
etc . Thus he sees (apparently) an application of this dual psyche to me . I do not have to now write a novel built around this concept of Ditheon because I have already done so—BTA—but (as I say and as Russ realizes) this (i.e., the idea of Ditheon) was not my conscious goal, point or intention in the novel . The dream was so obviously supernatural as to be grimly so; it was not a serene and pleasant dream . Nancy was so filled with energy that she was, it struck me in the dream, pure energy unleashed, not the energy of a person . Except for the possible affinity to Teilhard's idea of convergence to and in Point Omega (Christ as the goal of the universe) this idea is new and not one I have ever entertained regarding Thomas and all of 2-3-74 . I guess my reaction to the dream was one of terror (when I woke up), moderated by Russ' letter when I read it later on . This dream (even without Russ' letter but more so with his involved) ranks with anything that has happened to me starting in 2-74; it is a disclosure that is so profoundly vast that I can scarcely endure it . It is as if the dream answers the question ,
by what is almost a technological answer (as witness the schematics of the advanced weapons). It is fortunate and crucial that the dream made it clear that in no sense had the Godhead split, that di asunder, but meant, rather, two.
The term—the concept—Ditheon is the complete, absolute, total, accurate, definitive, final, ultimate explanation of 2-3-74 . This one word conveys it all, and the concept may be unknown in religious and theological history . It is a concept that I would never have reached on my own; I have had over 7 years to work on my exegesis, and never arrived at it . Russ did, vis-à-vis BTA . But one could say ,
No, it is not a unitary psyche; it is twain . It is di . And because it is di it jointly perceives two signals (this explains the second signal). Two psyches, two signals—and the parallaxis that permits the set-ground discrimination . Just as bicameral means two, Ditheon means two . And the on
Why did I never think of it before? Two psyches, two signals . Set and ground which the twin psyches blend together; one sees set, the other sees ground . So it is essential that they do remain di asunder); if they merged into one psyche they would no longer perceive/receive two differing signals, no longer be able to do a set-ground feature extraction . This is a totally new kind of mind! Twin push-pull psyches working in tandem . More than set-ground: two worlds (spatiotemporal?) based on a common essence; and the common essence can be perceived as archetypal constants (common to both signals or worlds); what I call archetypes eide
[ 91:11] Is it possible that performing the meta-abstraction creates, so to speak, the other psyche, rather than the other psyche existing first and then, because it exists, performing the meta-abstraction? Because this way, this soul ,
The crucial word (which the E. of Phil . employs) is see, in regard to ,
Nonetheless it is a great realization that this coming on of this higher reasoning faculty makes the person di Theon.
This, then, is not a quantitative increase in consciousness, or even a higher consciousness; this is two consciousnesses working in unison while kept clearly divided in two; it is necessary that they remain asunder.
It is as if the dream (in conjunction with Russ' letter which means in conjunction with BTA) tells me that twin opposed human psyches (bilateral hemispheric parity) equal a Ditheon and not a Dianthros . It is, then, as simple as that . All the mystification and mummery have been cleared up . My confusion is due to two elements: (1) The event itself, the meta-abstraction/the other psyche becoming conscious for the first time, so that I found that I had another human personality in my head who was not me; and (2) What we together experienced/perceived/saw as world—a radically transformed world . Which is to say, (1) how the apperception could occur; and (2) what was apperceived . The blending of the two problems baffled me because I did not understand that in fact I had two problems, which, if you think about it, would be normal when any new sensory mechanism came on for the first time; taking sight as an example—presuming you had been blind from birth but did not know you were blind—if you suddenly began to see you would be baffled by the fact of seeing, and baffled by what you saw, and these two would blend together as a total confusion issue, this how and this what by means of the how . I think I understand the how and a good deal of the what, although I must admit that I really don't know what VALIS seen externally would be . This is certainly the greatest mystery of all, and no doubt the most important; as I say in VALIS ,
Non-living to living—living to spirit
[ 91: K-129] It has no body (soma). It utilizes the principle of organization to structure anything, a whole lot of things—ordinary things—into its
