( 4) The experience of (2) under the revealed guise in which Zebra or the Logos was seen, including the set-ground separation into mundane versus holy; e.g., the illuminated letter
What does that signify? Our world (2) is woven—by Zebra . It is not normally seen for what it is—a 3-D web by Zebra in which Zebra is (i.e., Zebra is not outside or above it but rather is concealed within it). Ah! The worm metamorphoses into the butterfly; that's what I saw: the old worm
What is important about this distinction (between mere growth versus metamorphosis) is that in such a metamorphosis, (1) constituents are fitted in newly to perform functions they didn't before; (2) some parts are discarded, and the change process exerted on the parts remolded may be subjectively experienced by them—not as growth—but as pressure, as pain—loss, stressful alteration . I'd almost say that what I saw was a cannibalizing . St. Sophia 's
How much of our universe is involved? Just this planet? Not the cosmos is— the universe is—
Look at the positive—negentropic—value which change, all change, acquires from this metamorphosis
The black iron prison is the corpus of the great it as it was; our world is the process metamorphosis, interim, of an insect-like camouflaged, mimicking organism . It was this whose still small voice
( 2) There are androids the mantis
( 1) group mind (hive of bees neutral AI insect metamorphosis which I saw is precisely that which God refers to when he says ,
It is a moth—the luminous moth time
[ 33:7] The other night as I was going to sleep I was wondering who could de-stegenographize the hidden material in my writing—and the spirit responded with
[ 35:3] Something I never considered before is this: since—not if but since (as I know from my own experience), this divine entity can transfer knowledge to our minds, of the most complex and deep sort, why doesn't it clear up these mysteries about its nature once and for all? (1) to all Christendom; (2) or just even to me? I learned from it all sorts of things, but—such mystery remains . Or does it? Is not the [only] limitation that of our own limited conceptualizing faculties? It is not intrinsically mysterious—it is only a mystery to our limited minds and experience . That which reveals, and confers knowledge, can't be accused of creating mystery . What it does, I guess, is disclose the existence of mysteries—in the sense of the deepest core of meaning at the ontological heart of reality . It points to, as one points to or out, say, a sculpture—the thing which is . Not a mere verbal explanation but directly at the thing itself, to be contemplated as the final is . (Cf . Heraclitus :
the Oracle does not answer yes or no—it instead gives a sign [Zeichen] meaning.
[ 35:6] In Time Out of Joint the world is a fake, and specifically the real world is another time-segment . My initial revelation in 3-74 was that the time was really around 70 A.D.—not later but earlier, a reversal of Joint . Yet, the basic intimation is there, fully, in Joint; this is all a cunningly fabricated delusion, the world we see, and the basic delusion has to do with the true temporal locus . Since Joint was S-F I naturally put the real time in the future, not the past . Damn it, I've overlooked the extraordinary parallels between Joint and my
Back in the 50s when I lived at 1126 Francisco St. actually, as expressed in Joint that world seemed unreal; in actuality ,
Dream: opening huge carton and taking out large electronic artifact . Below it is a solid wall, a rectangle of beef . Under it is every kind of religious (Christian) writing imaginable, even sentences covered (stegenographia) by a glued-in paper strip with a replacement sentence . I try to interest everyone in the theological material, but they are like the harness bull who preceded Sergeant Kelly: totally uninterested . It is as if the religious material is crazy . There is no reconciliation between the world (of nature) represented by the huge rectangle (wall) of beef and the layer of religious information under it: the implication is that if you believe in the reality of the wall of flesh (sarx?) you can't see any sense in the religious info below, and the wall of beef is certainly real—you have to believe in it . But on the other hand, what is the relationship between the wall of beef and the great electronic artifact? As between the religious writing and the wall of beef, there is no reconciliation between the wall of beef and the artifact . I am sure that the religious writing equals the computer punched tape in Electric Ant and the computer of the Persus 9 in Maze, which can't be read intrinsically but which gives rise to the world of flesh or nature which again in turn gives rise to the artificial world of mechanical/electronic constructs . 3 levels or layers are represented . No one wishes to take seriously the deepest one (except me). The logos, the word, is represented; that which is written gives rise to the living world (creatures, nature) which in turn gives rise to our artificial environment . If we place ourselves in the top world (artificial construct) we are totally walled off—have no knowledge or contact with—the logos substratum, nor, if it is called to our attention can we see any merit in it: if ➋ is real and rational, ➊ is not . It is even hard, if not impossible, to comprehend ➋ (when one starts with ➌), which is given in the dream as the starting point of view . ➋ itself is difficult to explain: how does it relate to ➌? But at least it isn't crazy, the way ➊ looks . But put another way, ➊ gives rise to ➌ via ➋, a fascinating thought . So the origins of the technological world—the manufactured, the constructed, lies ultimately in a sort of hidden punched out tape just as the false world of Delmak-O arose from Persus 9's computer . ➋, the world of flesh and nature, totally hides the true origin of ➌ . It is by a thorough study of the relationship between ➋ and ➌ that the relationship between ➊ and ➋ can be understood . As ➊ is to ➋, ➋ is to ➌ . We live somewhere between ➋ and ➌, never (as the Persus crew never suspected while in polyencephalic fusion) suspecting ➊ . What the dream reveals is not just that we, like they, have a punched out computer tape programming us, but tells, too, that it is Christian, in fact Biblical in essence: i.e., Christianity is our punched out tape . All the thousands of large written pages of books which I saw—the books themselves—were our
The fascinating thing is that a glimpse of our punched tape
But look: ➊, the punched out computer tape, resembles the world of ➌ more than it does the intermediary (separating) world of nature, ➋ . As in
➌ is ➊'s way of replicating itself . It could even be argued that we—all living creatures—are primarily carriers of information: the DNA coding . The 3-2-1 layers dream suggests not just that an informational world underlies the opaque surface of the natural world but, even more specifically it is the Christian Holy-Spirit-inspired scriptures . These texts are not a description of events, past, present and future (i.e., of or about reality) but the cause of reality . Evidently this verbal information consists of a series of ideas (cf . Plato!) which, when thought by Zebra, are printed out in our world throughout its [linear time] length, not at space/time x and/or y but throughout: i.e., as always enacted (i.e., always present, being from outside time). I have the impression that a particular story is being told (repeatedly?), that which Daniel tells of Babylon, and the giant with feet of clay, etc . In this apocalyptic book the basic archetypes show up, but there are additional themes in the NT as well; this is why material from Acts as well as from Daniel
If I am correct about all this, then I say, the 1st advent was a palpable breaking-through of the supreme entity (mind—i.e., Holy Wisdom) of level ➊ into level ➋, the sole time it took place conspicuously . But in 3-74 I was shown—in my own novel Tears a breaking-through of info from level ➊ right on past ➋ and into level ➌! In level ➌ there is such a vast component of (verbal) information that info properly a part of level ➊ blends invisibly in . All the Acts Daniel (the dream) stuff in Tears is a perfect example of that . I virtually conclude that level ➊ deliberately evolves (programs
Zebra, which I saw undergoing metamorphosis, invisible to us normally, is evolving on level ➊ but will eventually invade level ➌, assimilating it to itself and infusing it with essence (reality). This means that level ➋ is nothing more than a means to an end . A sentient being (Brahman) is giving birth to sentient being, ➌, which ➋ is not . ➋ must be regarded as a womb (receptacle of being), a kind of hatching egg . The living, sentient product of this egg parent egg . Thus I say, the ubiquitous immanent being, of level ➊, does not divide (e.g., binary fission, etc .) but creates an intermediary—and perhaps temporary—state which in a certain literal sense is not truly real, except as a source for what ultimately will be real—level ➌ . This level ➌ certainly resembles Teilhard de Chardin's Noösphere . We can expect level ➋ to be generating progressively more replicatory aspects of its own source: level ➊ . The ultimate true birth is exactly what is depicted in Ubik: the wise information breaking through reality (through ➋ from ➊), thus ➌ will more and more resemble ➊, level ➋ will be effaced by the ➊ qualities of ➌. I foresee in all this eventually a final absorption of ➋, entirely, by ➌, so that ➊ and ➌ are joined [directly] as a monism . Our first intimation of this elimination process would be the abrupt first incarnation into our ➋ world of the embodiment of ➊ itself, a sort of leap over
( A) and (B): the combination of these two processes would produce a stability of the so-to-speak amount of ontological essence of the empirical world, but continually there would be a cryptic or subtle metamorphosis of the world as ➋ aspects lessen and ➌ grow, the ratio continually changing irrevocably in the direction of ➊ intruding and ➋ diminishing . Our life spans are too short to experience this metamorphosis, except that the rate of acceleration of ➌ is now conspicuous . We are not aware that ➌ is not merely a product of ➋ but rather/also a thrusting through ➋ of ➊ . ➌ must be regarded as ➊ ultimately restated; the material universe is a temporary expedient, the egg between hen and hen, ➌ finally will be identical to ➊, as near as I can discern, whereas ➋ is a polyencephalic delusion
When ➌ is completed it will be the
My God—the Bible is the story which the punched computer tape of ➊ is printing out via ➋, directly fulfilling ➌! I can deduce this from the biblical elements in, e.g., Tears . It is ➊ incising onto ➌ via ➋ . Tears is a mixture of ➊ and ➌ . The only other way the elements of ➊ could appear in my writing would be racial memory, but the racial memory
[ 31:18] All these instances I've found of divine
[ 31:64] On the Doonesbury TV special the overthrow of Nixon was spoken of, by a child, as the revolution, and the counterculture adult who participated in it said ,
Rescue, then, in the final analysis, is a healing, reuniting of that which was originally one but which somehow broke apart when bits or a piece of it fell down here and was forthwith imprisoned . The sparks which fell were coated by layer upon layer of the inert, the opaque, the dead and death-dealing-rinds which caused forgetting and loss of identity . Suppose we take this forward from Gnostic terms into the strictly modern world: we say, then, that a vast proto-organism existed (embracing at the least several star systems) and ours fell out—was severed from—the giant proto-organism, which I saw in my nitrous oxide revelation as a vast vine (Christ) pruned by the father as Gardener . Many cuttings feel no loss, but some do, and these latter the Savior (the original cosmic organism) seeks reunification with, upon his initiative, his growing downward, so to speak, into the otherwise lightless realm into which we, cut off into bits, descended thousands of years ago . The keystone is restored memory, which is a recollection of ourselves not as separate entities but as stations
[ 31:77] As I realized about the cover of the paperback of Scanner it really shows the dealer and law officer as the two halves of one person, with no hint of warring
I feel as if the scales have fallen from my eyes, and I'm seeing lucidly . From Frolix 8 to Tears to Scanner: a logical progression of an in-depth study of jail, tyranny, dope, slave labor camps, and irreality related to lies (this last point mostly in Scanner). Something of this seems hinted at in
What is shown in Scanner as the lies-enslaving-tyranny axis is not simplistically identified as the government as it is in Tears and Frolix 8—in Scanner it becomes paradoxical and elusive, with the government perhaps or evidently producing the drug, and the clinics and rehab centers perhaps or evidently being deliberate slave labor camps . The drug is there; the work camps are there; the feds are alluded to, but—the reader must unravel the puzzle for himself . If it isn't the government, who is it? Is not the definition of government
? And the makers of SD, which turn out to be the slave labor camp owners, are one and the same; it is a de facto government—like the Mafia, and look: why are scramble suits necessary? Crime (the Mafia? identified as dope elements) have penetrated the authorities deeply . As is said again and again in the novel :
things are not as they seem (as is always the case in my writing). Arctor is not what he appears to be . Nor is Donna . Nor Barris . Nor Mike Westway . Nor New-Path . The sides cannot be clearly drawn as good-bad, us-them, pro-dope—anti-dope.
[ 32:3] In Feb. of 1974 I momentarily withdrew assent to the reality of this world; a month later this world underwent visible changes, and its true nature became perceptible to me: it is, as the Gnostics said, a prison . It is there, but it is not as it appears to be . The immediate reaction to the anomie in the world is to say simply that it is out of control . If it is there to reawaken us to our divine origins, however, its malign aspects serve a good purpose . What each of us must do is repudiate the world, which is to say, deny it while at the same time affirming a sanctified alternate reality, which I did vis-à-vis the golden fish sign; the false quasi-cosmos was denied and the true sacred reality was affirmed . It was a single act, a movement away from the first to the second . I think I've figured out the basic move necessary: an ethical balking . * That is how the world-denying begins . That is the first step in unraveling the counterfeit quality of the world . The Gnostics stressed such a metaphysical strike and pointed out that the archons (who rule this prison world, the wardens) can only harm the body and mind but not the divine spark . It is a refusal to cooperate with a harmful world, which, once one has balked against it, reveals its ersatz quality . [...] It probably is of extraordinary significance that repudiation of the mundane reality and acknowledgement of the transmundane is a single event or act, rather than two . The two realities cannot both exist, evidently . They are counter-realities . This is what the Gnostics believed: that the world stands between man and God, and must be eliminated . Who would expect that disavowing the world would instantly expose the divine on the far side of it?
[ 32:4] What I saw that I term VALIS or Zebra must then not have been immanent deity at all, but, as I later realized, a mimicking entity not rising up from within but descending onto objects and processes from above or, better, outside . It had, so to speak, landed here . As with Runciter's words in Ubik, it was penetrating through from—this is the best formulation of all—from behind . Reality is constructed like a ham sandwich: man is one slice of the bread, then comes the slice of ham which is the world, then the second slice of bread which is God . The words in Ubik pierced or filtered through from the other slice, through to man, to us, this slice . It's funny that I could read the E. of Phil . about the world being
Now the incredible accuracy of Ubik can be appreciated . The world is not merely counterfeit (as in Stigmata and all the others); there is more: it is counterfeit, but under it lies another world, and it is this other world, this Logos world, which filters or breaks through . Ubik, then, is a step up from Maze and Stigmata in presenting this . It presents a triune situation, which evidently is the actual one, whereas the other novels and stories present only the aspect of world as hallucination, without disclosing that another, actual one lies beyond, below or beneath . It is God who, as the far bread slice, takes the initiative toward us, as Runciter does toward Joe Chip and the other inertials . This is what I saw in 3-74, when, under the power of the Holy Spirit, I read the dream section in Tears and found a latent or crypte message embedded in the text . My experience and view, then, are not only Gnostic but what is more tend to prove the correctness of the triune Gnostic division, in particular their view of the world as alienating and divisive between man and God (Joe Chip and Runciter). Had the Gnostic view been wrong, when I abolished
[ 32:5] Starting from my True Vine revelation, we are kept in a lopped-off relationship to God by the world itself—the faulty pseudo-cosmos in which we find ourselves living . A mere undercurrent sensation of alienation must blossom into something greater, or anyhow can; it can lead to a moral repudiation of the world (the kind of ethical balking such as the Ramparts tax strike21) or it can lead to an epistemological
Beyond doubt, the true God could annihilate our pseudo-world, not merely permitting a temporary vision to one person (such as he did for me by having me taken over by the Paraclete) but for everyone . The Paraclete, possessing me, literally saw through the world, as if it were transparent; I remember that; wow, was it something, that gate, those geometric forms, and the presence of Zebra (God). (Or the cosmic Christ .) Lem says that in Ubik
[ 32:7] One fascinating aspect of Ubik is disclosed when the question is asked ,
Ubik: Salvific information penetrating through the walls
Collating the three novels, how much of the Gnostic message is expressed? Or, put another way, how much of my 2-74 , 3-74 experience is expressed? One thing left out is the altering of the historic process, which was revealed to me as happening in 3-74 . I suppose in a sense that's in Frolix 8 . And the breaching through by God and the hosts, the apocalyptic material from Acts Daniel . There are little sprinkles in other novels and stories—for instance, the idea of anamnesis (expressed negatively usually in my writing by the theme of fake memories). Well, that's expressed in Maze, so I've inserted it supra . I wonder what you get if you sit down starting with Roog and read through everything (including such strange stories as Retreat Syndrome
What I notice is how many people wish me well . Look at what John Ross, a stranger, said . Look at what KW said about me having served, done my duty, and now can pass on into the reward waiting for me—he said, even, that they'd applaud me . I still don't know what I did in 3-74 re the Xerox missive, but what I did was what I was sent here to do from the start, and I did it right; as KW put it ,
[ 50:16] I am thinking back . Sitting with my eyes shut I am listening to Strawberry Fields . I get up . I open my eyes because the lyrics speak of
What happened? What communicated with me? I could read and understand the secret messages
I have been placed under God's protection . The advocate now represents me . I hear a far off quiet voice that is not a human voice; it—she—comforts me . In the dark of the night she tells me that
A voice barely audible . In my head . Later she tells me she is a tutelary spirit, and I don't know what that word means . Tutor? I look it up . It means guardian.
I am led to the inescapable conclusion that, totally unknowingly, we are all constituents of a vast living organism, and that everything which occurs in it, our reality, happens due to its deliberate intention—that of its own brain, Noös or psyche—and, further, this vast living organism which governs and regulates our every move and experience resembles an AI system or computer, and that under certain exceptional circumstances it can and does speak of one or more of us, its members—finally, the organism—or this part of it—is in trouble—has its
Most likely of all, it is a self-repairing AI mind system, and this repair activity (known historically to us as salvation) has to do with (ah!) reactivating a subsection (i.e., us) which has fallen below the message-transfer level (known to us, as the Essene terms, as
). We are a memory coil, presently inoperative—i.e., malfunctioning: asleep, and, as in a quasi-dream, we are not where [and when?] we think we are (cf . Maze and Ubik). This is the heart of the matter; we are an impaired section of the megamind; we misperceive . That which we see—our reality—does not exist . I am acosmic in viewing this; as in Maze we collectively hallucinate . The megamind is attempting to stimulate us back to being in touch with itself . Which is the
i.e., back to consciousness of it and ourselves as parts of it—which will, when successfully achieved, abolish this false world, whereupon it will be instantly replaced by the divine abyss.
[ 50:23] After listening to Discreet Music
( 1) My 3-74 and Tessa's 12-77 experiences have been/were
