I waited for the remark that begins Women— Women can't— Why do women— HIS LITTLE GIRL
A SIMULTANEOUS ROUND OF
( There follows the chorus which gives the game its name . A passing male, hearing this exchange, remarked, A-a-a-h very long, with exaggerated enthusiasm . Dear God, don't let her make a fool of herself . Drink what?
I suppose that, critically speaking, she didn't look too bad . I mean, she said (correcting herself), Alcohol, Ethyl alcohol? She puts her hand over her heart in unconscious parody . Because, answers my Janet, Huh?
The youngish man returned with our drink and while I signalled him Stay, stay, she's harmless, she's innocent, Janet screwed up her face and tried to drink the stuff in one swallow . It was then I knew that her sense of humor was running away with her . She turned red . She coughed explosively.
he proposed amiably, I'll make you one you will like ."( There follows a small interlude of us punching each other and whispering vehemently: Try it, I did, she said equably.
He takes her hand and closes her fingers around the glass, shaking his forefinger at her playfully :
( Like all foreigners she is fascinated by the word Okay
she says seriously . Hullo, Marijuana? Sickness, A-a-ah, says Janet, letting out a long breath.
said Ginger Moustache reprovingly . (Huh? Listen, Sure, Hey, said Ginger Moustache, springing to his feet ,
She looked down at herself . What? Right? (she gave him mine )
says Janet Evason, chuckling, bending over (though somewhat hampered by her party dress), laughing, gasping with little feminine squeaks from the top of the compass right down to the bottom, hoarse and musical, see? Your what? My duel, My God ,
( She's very pleased with herself . She chuckles . )
says Janet impatiently; Sure, says Ginger Moustache.
She looks surprised . Huh?
Ginger Moustache goes on . He smiles and broods.
( He's into his duffle coat by now after searching in the hall closet .) Social work?
Ginger Moustache is alarmed, knows he's alarmed, laughs at himself, shakes his head . How wide is the gap between cultures! But we grok . We shake hands . He goes off into the party to fetch Domicissa, whom he pulls by the wrist (she silently protesting) to the hall closet.
Saccharissa has just said, pouting ,
said Saccharissa with great energy ,
said the man from Leeds.
said Janet, imitating quite accurately ,
( pushing us down on the couch )
He came back with another and she drank it . Uh-oh . We made trivial conversation until she recovered . He leaned forward confidentially . What is— Ha ha! said Sharp Glasses.
( He laughed just like that, in sharp little bursts .) Janet . Oh ,
said Ewing, energetically shredding a small napkin ,
( here he took off his glasses, wiped them with a little serrated square of blue cotton, and put them back on) For example, he went on, mistaking her silence for wisdom while Ludicrissa muttered ,
somewhere in the background about something or other ,
he went on, What? Not exactly, You see— Nah! and he took us by the wrist
said the host, squeezing her wrist and puckering up his lips; Savages! she shouted . A hush had fallen on the party . The host leafed dexterously through his little book of rejoinders but did not come up with anything . Then he looked up savage only to find it marked with an affirmative: Bitch! (flip flip flip) Prude! (flip flip) Ball-breaker! (flip flip flip flip )
( flip flip )
She looked puzzled . (
THE MARINE SAID ,
She said in astonished good-humor :
The little blue book was rattling around in my purse . I took it out and turned to the last thing he had said (You stupid broad et cetera). Underneath was written Girl backs down—cries — manhood vindicated . Under
was written Don't hurt (except whores). I took out my own pink book, for we all carry them, and turning to the instructions under Brutality
There were sub-rubrics, one (reinforcing) under Management and one (exceptional) under Martyrdom.
On Whileaway they have a saying: When the mother and child are separated they both howl, the child because it is separated from the mother, the mother because she has to go back to work . Whileawayans bear their children at about thirty—singletons or twins as the demographic pressures require . These children have as one genotypic parent the biological mother (the body-mother) while the non-bearing parent contributes the other ovum (other mother). Little Whileawayans are to their mothers both sulk and swank, fun and profit, pleasure and contemplation, a show of expensiveness, a slowing-down of life, an opportunity to pursue whatever interests the women have been forced to neglect previously, and the only leisure they have ever had—or will have again until old age . A family of thirty persons may have as many as four mother-and-child pairs in the common nursery at one time . Food, cleanliness, and shelter are not the mother's business; Whileawayans say with a straight face that she must be free to attend to the child 's
Some do, of course, but then neither Mother may be there; people are busy; people are traveling; there's always work, and the big people who were so kind to a four-year-old have little time for an almost-adult.
They are not allowed to have anything to do with malfunctions or breakdowns on foot ,
They do not meddle with computers on foot
Sexual relations—which have begun at puberty— continue both inside the family and outside it, but mostly outside it . Whileawayans have two explanations for this . Jealousy, they say for the first explanation, and for the second, Why not? Without which (said the same Dunyasha Bernadetteson, q.v . )
And of course the usual legal checks on murder and theft—both those crimes being actually quite difficult to commit . (See, Without which (says Dunyasha Bernadetteson, op . cit . )
A Belin, run mad and unable to bear the tedious-ness of her work, flees above the forty-eighth parallel, intending to remain there permanently . You (says an arrogant note she leaves behind) do not exist
( wrote Dunyasha Bernadetteson in 368 A.C.) Janet? JANET!
She has a black poodle who whines under the trees in the back yard and bares his teeth as he rolls over and over in the dead leaves . She's reading the Christian Existentialists for a course in school . She crosses the October weather, glowing with health, to shake hands clumsily with Miss Evason . She's pathologically shy . She puts one hand in the pocket of her jeans, luminously, the way well-beloved or much-studied people do, tugging at the zipper of her man's leather jacket with the other hand . She has short sandy hair and freckles . Says over and over to herself Non Sum, Non Sum, which means either I don't exist or I'm not that, according to how you feel it; this is what Martin Luther is supposed to have said during his fit in the monastery choir.
Janet, in her black-and-white tweeds with the fox collar like a movie star's, gave a speech to the local women's club . She didn't say much . Someone gave her chrysanthemums which she held upside-down like a baseball bat . A professor from the local college spoke of other cultures . A whole room was full of offerings brought by the club—brownies, fudge cake, sour cream cake, honey buns, pumpkin pie—not to be eaten, of course, only looked at, but they did eat it finally because somebody has to or it isn't real.
and she faints with happiness . Laur, who is reading psychology for the Existentialists (I said that, didn't I?), serves coffee to the club in the too-big man's shirt they can't ever get her out of, no matter what they do, and her ancient, shape less jeans . Swaddling graveclothes . She's a bright girl . She learned in her thirteenth year that you can get old films of Mae West or Marlene Dietrich (who is a Vulcan; look at the eyebrows) after midnight on UHF if you know where to look, at fourteen that pot helps, at fifteen that reading's even better . She learned, wearing her rimless glasses, that the world is full of intelligent, attractive, talented women who manage to combine careers with their primary responsibilities as wives and mothers and whose husbands beat them . She's put a gold circle pin on her shirt as a concession to club day . She loves her father and once is enough . Everyone knows that much as women want to be scientists and engineers, they want foremost to be womanly companions to men (what?) and caretakers of childhood; everyone knows that a large part of a woman's identity inheres in the style of her attractiveness . Laur is daydreaming . She looks straight before her, blushes, smiles, and doesn't see a thing . After the party she'll march stiff-legged out of the room and up to her bedroom; sitting tailor-fashion on her bed, she'll read Engels on the family and make in the margin her neat, concise, perfectly written notes . She has shelves and shelves of such annotated works . Not for her Huh? Yes ,
Janet dreamed that she was skating backwards, Laura that a beautiful stranger was teaching her how to shoot . In dreams begin responsibilities . Laura came down to the breakfast table after everybody had gone except Miss Evason . Whileawayans practice secret dream interpretation according to an arbitrary scheme they consider idiotic but very funny; Janet was guiltily seeing how contrary she could make her dream come out and giggling around her buttered toast . She snickered and shed crumbs . When Laura came into the room Janet sat up straight and didn't guffaw . I, said Laur severely, the victim of ventriloquism ,
said Laur in an entirely different tone ,
