( 7) Angel encounters Bill: Tim is alive in him (as in
) but he (whoever he
[ 79: I-46] In this Sibyl plot development in the Bishop Archer
Am I falsifying history? I don't know; the material seems to be in control . But it (Jeff's—Jim Jr.'s—coming back) proves futile pragmatically: The Bishop and Kirsten died anyhow! Angel must be shown to realize this . Yet—what if Jim is alive in Bill (as in the
There must be some indubitable sign that Bill at the end conveys to Angel that he really is Tim (even though he is mad and in the asylum). (My model :
) It must be a holy moment, and, to her, terrifying . Both: (1) holy; and (2) terrifying, not reassuring . (That would be sentimental .) This goes all the way back to my early novel (really my first):
He could not prove Jeff came back . He could not get the necessary info to save his life . He has returned—in/as Bill—but cannot prove it . So the book in the final analysis explores the fact that first, you cannot know the truth, and what truth you know, you cannot prove to others, thus (this is the summation) although Fate is defeated, you cannot prove that you have defeated it; this knowledge (of this victory) cannot be communicated . You can defeat Fate and know it, but you cannot tell it—which is my precise position; thus Tim winds up in an ambiguous position; he both won (he defeats Fate) but he cannot proclaim it—as if Fate exacts a latent, final, sting/victory . Yes: Fate plays the final card; you win but can't make anyone believe . It remains a private matter, locked in your idios brain . [...] So, strangely, this is the study of a man's triumph over Fate, which is a Promethean freedom; but his punishment for his theft
What would be his best ideal solution? Why to resolve simply in the fact that he is alive, per se; to abandon the proclaiming in the form of a simple, private, humble life, thankful for being spared, being alive; so we see him (Bill) at last in perfect peace, no longer trying to convince Angel; and at this point when he abandons his strivings (Schopenhauer's Will) and simply says ,
[ 79: I-56] Someone from behind me leaned forward and touched me on the shoulder . Remember me? he said softly.
And it may just be the most accurate of the 3 books, in that it involves Jim Pike, and, what is more, says that Jim returned from the dead, out of compassion for those he loved
Jim came back (I say it in Bishop
I define Christ, then, as anyone whose love (compassion) is so great that he rejects his chance at Nirvana (return to God) to return from death—the next World/Upper Realm—to and for his friends . After he dies they receive his returned spirit (Born again —"Born in the Spirit"—"Born from above"), whereupon not only are they joined with him but, moreover, the two realms are reunited to form what is called
The fact is, I not only know Angel Archer—Betty Jo, Connie, Kleo, Joan—and something more . My creation born out of 35 years of writing . This book, Archer, the summation back to Weaver's Shuttle
[ 79: I-68] So where did she come from? I inferred her nature from the style . But when you read the book you naturally get the opposite impression, viz: I had her in mind, because I wanted her to be my character I had to use her style of thinking . Yet that is not so.
Throughout the book, her compassion factor grows Bishop Archer's mind (intellect) which she had identified as something related to, like, analogous to her own, is (becomes), because it now is in Bill, the object of her compassion (loving-kindness); thus she feels compassion for her own intellect . Hence her own self as intellect (not to mention Tim)! Her heart (compassion, agape) wins out over her mind (intellect); she, then, is the Buddha's Bodhisattva ;
[ 79: I-71] In the Bishop novel I saw how style
[ 79: I-72] There is a stupendous and obvious point I'm missing about Angel . It would—and I did! —require an extraordinary viewpoint character to both intellectually and emotionally understand the Bishop . To do it adequately he or she would have to be highly qualified in terms of verbal skills, intellectual comprehension and tenderness; otherwise the lens
[ 79: I-74] Most amazing of all, I did not perceive in advance that Bishop Archer would be the 3rd book of the VALIS trilogy; in fact I had conceived of it as repudiating (!) the Valis notions/mysticism . But on the contrary it nails the whole thing down and follows logically; in view of this, no wonder I turned down the Blade Runner offer to do the Bishop Archer
[ 79: I-77] At the very end of the Bishop Archer book it would appear that Bill thinks he is—not just Tim Archer—but Christ! (the expositor
[ 79: I-81] What I have shown is what the best intellectual mind—as correctly represented by a young Berkeley intellectual woman—can do and cannot do; it can go so far (represented by her
night) but it can go no farther—as represented by her rejection of Christ (yes, Christ!) at the end: she walks away . This is a penetrating analysis of the intellectual mind: what it can do (a very great deal) and what it can't do (make the final leap). And she knows it . This is what the Bishop Archer book is about: Angel is a pure aesthetic-intellectual, able to go so far but unable to make the final leap to Christ . Thus Berkeley (as paradigm of the intelligent, sensitive mind) is both lauded and stigmatized . This is a fine book; it both praises and deplores, and correctly . Thus one deduces the existence of the divine by its absence: the failure of her final leap (i.e., my meta-abstraction). Thus I was able to do specifically what Angel was not able to do; I left Berkeley . The topic is: knows
Thus the novel is a damning indictment of pure intelligence lacking faith . She is so close but cannot make the final crucial leap . This does not deal with Berkeley except as a paradigm of reasoning: The intelligent, sensitive, educated mind—just how far can it go . The great quantum leap that I call the meta-abstraction is lacking . Yet all the clues, for it, are there . It is, as she says, a machine; it plods on and cannot leap the crucial gap to foolishness (as it were). It cannot pass over from words (
) to the supra or non verbal, the purely conceptual (and non-verbal: absolute abstraction). The paradoxes are obscured to her, despite Barefoot's best efforts (i.e. ,
[ 79: I-86] Perhaps the great leap—meta-abstraction—is when we see the peak experiences as signs pointing to Valis which in itself is unknowable: my surd; this may be my meta-abstraction; viz: suddenly you intuit that the peak experience—all peak experiences—are signs pointing to a thing (Valis) in itself unknowable, and are not to be taken in themselves as real, but, rather, signify (i.e., point to) reality . Since they seem not only real but ultra-real, then all at once reality is viewed as a signifier of reality, which (reality) in itself cannot be apprehended (directly); and this may be what my meta-abstraction was all about, which explains why I can't put it into words (i.e., what I realized; since I realized only a sign, not the thing
[ 79: I-87] So the meta-abstraction is the sudden insight that the most intense experiences with reality—i.e., that which is most real—is only an abstract sign pointing to an actual totally unseen reality beyond, which causes us to experience the peak moments for the purpose of alluding to itself, creating the peak experiences as an interface by which to register on us; whereupon these ultra intense experiences—taken to be ultimately real—suddenly become only signs, hence abstract: i.e., WORDS about reality and not themselves reality . They merely allude to but are not; they possess no sein, and yet they constitute the most compelling reality
Within the framework of this realization, the statement
conveys everything, in that reality is perceived as a field on which something beyond it intrinsically totally undetectable impinges, with the result that it—this totally intrinsically undetectable thing —becomes indirectly (inferentially) known to us—as if it is signaling to us but can signal to us only by perturbating the reality field . Thus we must construe reality as a medium on which this thing registers and makes itself available to us: my surd . The implications of this are simply stupendous: this thing evidently cannot directly register (impinge) on us . To suddenly grasp that we are compelled to give total assent to reality merely as a means by which we can inferentially know this thing —this may be the great leap, my meta-abstraction . As in going from
; it is an abstraction, and it does involve a sudden vast leap . Like that of seeing the relationship between the word banana
[ 79: I-89] So to say the universe is info is only half the story, and the lesser half: the surd (1) is not discussed . But Bishop is on the right path: Barefoot 's
Reality stands in relationship to X as signifier (meta-abstraction). What is this X? We don't know; we have only the signifier ,
But if reality is abstracted into a signifier we can fathom that it (reality) points, although we can see what is pointed to; however, this X perturbs the reality field and so is knowable by inference (its perturbation of reality). It renders reality (into) a language . This is why I saw: the plasmate; the set-ground; and rest-motion; and linking-relinking: X was perturbing reality causing it to be in relation to X a language (i.e., as the word banana is to banana). Thus in these 7 years I've only had half the picture, but sensed the surd . X
My God—what is pointed to is Ubik, Lem's analysis of Ubik (uncanny one-way intrusions
[ 79: I-94] The meta-abstraction is to (suddenly) perceive reality as signifier and not as the thing signified . Hence as a result (of this meta-abstraction) reality would then very soon assume the aspect of information and language and signs because this is how our minds conceive of signifier
I've been on the lip of this realization ever since I developed my surd language elements that I saw (e.g., plasmate, set-ground, linking-relinking, rest-motion, MMSK) may in fact be metaphors constructed by my own mind to express the fact that as the word banana
But it would be very hard for this meta-abstraction to take the form of words because to say ,
seems (even maybe is) oxymoronic (except that the AI voice knew how to express it :
It's like Borges' story
Well, then; perhaps my 2-74 meta-abstraction was not Plato's recovery of the Forms . But a new way of perceiving reality (distantly related to Plato's perception of the Forms; so-to-speak analogous to it), resulting in my Kantian ordering categories fundamentally revising themselves (or rather my brain discarded the old ones—space, time and causation—and adapted the new one of conceiving everything in terms of abstract information). This is more accurate, but the main goal does not have to do with reality at all but that of which reality (as a field) is the signifier.
My brain was telling itself.
My brain tried to break the cypher
This of course is why God
[ 79: I-99 ]
—hypnogogic thought . Referring to Acts
[ 79: I-110] Tug . Valence the way . Influence on the reality field: perturbation
I have unified Kantian Cartesianism and Taoism: the sentient tug on reality (the reality field
Valis (my one—sole—glimpse of the action of the absolute on the reality field
) was a tug, a valence away from plumb . This is the Ch'ang Tao which is outside reality acting on reality . I saw the absolute as a tug (perturbation) acting on reality (and I comprehended the dialectic) and this is Taoism . The Tao is impersonal but
[ 79: I-113] The key is this: the Commedia successfully captures the Medieval world view of vertical—or Gothic—space: rising . This coupled with a transcendental Platonism is the essence of the matter, the hierarchically arranged realms . What I need to do is study a modern person who has no literary contact with the medieval vertical space (as does Angel Archer) and trace that person rising through the triune realms from say his high school years to his first marriage, divorce . Without ever referring to the Middle Ages or Dante I will show him rising analogically to Julien Sorel's rise in society in terms of wealth and influence; this however, is spiritual rising, through the vertical realms, in Berkeley in the 40s and 50s . (?) And then (perhaps) a crisis, disaster and Fall . (Why? Why not just have it as in Dante?) Successive levels of spiritual enlightenment: the Commedia revisited with no theology . All merely secular: aesthetics, politics, his job . Au tobiographical, a spiritual search . (For what? The right woman
( Editor's note: Dick had finished his new novel, which he called Bishop Timothy Archer
[ 80: I-115] The
