Parsifal: A three-act opera by Richard Wagner (1813–1883), based on the epic Germanic poem Parzival, about the titular knight's quest for the Holy Grail . In Wagner's story, which is also influenced by legends of the Buddha, Parsifal embodies a holy fool
Philo of Alexandria (20 B.C.E.–50 C.E .): A Hellenistic Jew who used a variety of Greek philosophical concepts to interpret and defend the Jewish scriptures . His writings were particularly important to the early Church fathers, who were probably influenced by his association of Logos with the governing plan of creation and the word of God
plasmate: A Dickian neologism roughly equivalent to living knowledge
pleroma (Greek): Literally, fullness
Plotinus (c. 205–270 C.E .): Ancient Roman philosopher in the tradition of Plato whose notion of the One gave Dick a way to integrate some of the phenomena he perceived through the lens of VALIS . Plotinus's One is both the undivided source of all entities and the goal of contemplative thought; the mystic philosopher's search for the One is famously described as
psyche (Greek): Originally breath, life, soul self.
Pythagoras (c. 570–490 B.C.E .): Ancient Greek philosopher and mathematician, perhaps the first to call himself a philosopher or
Salvador Salvandus, or Salvator Salvandus: The saved savior, a trope of Gnostic soteriology . The hero in the
Sankara (c. 788–820 C.E .): One of the most important expositors of Advaita Vedanta or idealist nondualism
Schopenhauer, Arthur (1788–1860): Pessimistic German philosopher whose account of the blind striving of life, or will, casts doubts on the power of reason to organize human society . Schopenhauer called for humans to look beyond appearances or representations, which have a similar relation to reality as a dream . A pioneer in the Western philosophical encounter with Eastern thought, Schopenhauer was deeply influenced by the Upanishads, whose translation had
Spinoza, Baruch (1632–1677): A lens maker, Jewish heretic, and philo sophical monist of vast influence on the history of philosophy . Spinoza's vision of an immanent
Stigmata: The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch (1965) tells the story of wealthy industrialist Palmer Eldritch, who returns from the Proxima system with the drug Chew-Z; when ingested, it transports the user into another reality where Eldritch, whose three stigmata
surd: From the Latin root speechless; in mathematics, a surd refers to an unresolvable or radical square root (such as the Ô2) that cannot be expressed with rational numbers . Within the religious discourse of theodicy, a surd refers to a natural evil, like tsunamis or cancer, rather than a moral evil . Dick defines it here as
Tagomi, Nobusuke: The hero of The Man in the High Castle (1962). Tagomi is a midlevel Japanese bureaucrat who, at the end of the novel, sees through
Tat Tvam Asi (Sanskrit): Traditionally translated
Tillich, Paul (1886–1965): German-American Protestant theologian and philosopher . Tillich's The Courage to Be (1952) was a major and widely read work of postwar existentialist thought . In his concept of the
Tillich argues that a reinvigorated encounter with the divine requires that the faithful move beyond what Dick calls prior thought formations
Ti to on (Greek):
VALIS: Acronym coined by Dick, based on the phrase
Xenophanes (c. 570–475 B.C.E .): Greek philosopher and poet, and a critic of the religious anthropomorphism of his contemporaries . In fragments referenced frequently in the Exegesis, Xenophanes describes a God who is unitary, changeless, and eternal and
Zagreus (Greek): An alternate name of the Greek god Dionysus that means
Simon Critchley is Hans Jonas Professor of Philosophy at the New School for Social Research in New York . He is the author of many books, including The Faith of the Faithless, to be published in 2012 . He is series moderator for The Stone ,
Steve Erickson is the author of nine novels—including These Dreams of You, to be published in early 2012—as well as editor of the literary journal Black Clock . In November 1990, he wrote the cover story on Philip K. Dick, California Time-Slip ,
Pamela Jackson holds degrees in rhetoric and library and information studies from the University of California, Berkeley and Los Angeles, respectively . Her 1999 dissertation ,
Sturgeon, Theodore (Ted Adjustment Team, The Commuter, The Defenders, Frozen Journey, Frozen Journey Impostor, Precious Artifact, Retreat Syndrome, Second Variety ,
Having nothing else to do or think about, he began to work out theoretically the life cycle of the bugs, and, with the aid of the Britannica, try to determine specifically which bugs they were . They now filled his house . He read about many different kinds and finally noticed bugs outdoors, so he concluded they were aphids . After that decision came to his mind it never changed, no matter what other people told him...like
Jerry put down the dog, which was wrapped in a towel, and knelt over the shag rug.
he said . The rug was covered with aphids; they hopped up everywhere, up and down, some higher than others . He searched for an especially large one, because of the difficulty people had seeing them.
Charles Freck brought him an empty mayonnaise jar . Jerry went on searching, and at last came across an aphid leaping up at least four feet in the air . The aphid was over an inch long . He caught it, carried it to the jar, carefully dropped it in, and screwed on the lid . Then he held it up triumphantly . See? Yeahhhhh, Charles Freck said, his eyes wide as he scrutinized the contents of the jar . Sure ,
Charles Freck said, later on in the day.
Jerry said . The pain, constant as it was, had become unbearable; he had never gotten used to it, and he knew he never would . The urge, the longing, to take another shower was overwhelming him.
he gasped, straightening up, Okay, Charles said, his long legs wobbling as he swung toward a jar, both hands cupped . An ex-veteran, he still had good muscular control, though; he made it to the jar . But then he said suddenly, Chickenshit bastard, Couldn't you—
Charles Freck phoned up somebody who he hoped was holding . My name?
Cop signals to other cop in prowl car.
Charles Freck in his horror-fantasy number induced by the sight of the black-and-white pacing him . Donna! When the sign flashed WALK he hurried across after her and caught up with her . She declined to run but merely walked rapidly . No, No . She came toward him, directly at him; he retreated backward, because she held a short knife pointed at his stomach . Get lost, Jeez!
He walked cautiously toward her . One night ,
The girl said, No, he said, startled.
She came toward him three steps . No ,
She amended that . Tabs, Yes . She nodded intently, head down . When?
Shit, he thought . Day after tomorrow . How much? Okay ,
Donna said as he started up his car and backed out into traffic.
Opening her purse, she got out a little note pad and a pen that had SPARKS BATTERY TUNE-UP stamped on it.
She gazed at him meditatively as he drove . Sure ,
he asked the girl . Aphids . No, Not be—
Glancing at him, Donna said, No ,
Donna said placidly.
She was watching the cars ahead.
She pointed excitedly . Wow.
Donna said . She reached over and put her hand on his arm . A quiet hand that he at once responded to . Slow down.
He could feel the shaking now himself, and see it in his hands, on the wheel, the shaking hands on the steering wheel, at twenty miles an hour.
