Also, what I experienced was an Adjustment, in terms of the palintonos and palintropos harmonie systems . The great entity which we call God, Immanent Mind being a better term, adjusted imbalances at that time, and this started up a lot of signaling . Probably I was part of a palintropos change, and oscillation outward (expanding) with what had been in the Taoist sense
We are the acted-upon, which is what is meant by ,
What possessed me also equally possessed the world around me, so unless that which was not alive (the universe) can suddenly be alive, which is not likely, then more probably it was a heightening effect both in me and outside me . It already was alive . I know I was . This was for both me and for my environment a threshold effect, or anyhow my perception thresholded . I say, It is all alive, and what we see is not only alive, it is alive through being infused by life as our body is alive through being infused by life . It is psyche to soma in both cases . We are talking about a vitalistic, not a mechanistic, view, and I saw it . I am sure of what I saw . Maybe by possessed it should always read ,
In another sense, being possessed was being outside oneself, and outside the environment as well, at a third point, the Archimedean standpoint from which one could see both oneself and the environment as an interacting entity...but this does require being outside.
Dream about Dodger stadium and low class Mexican type U.S. celebrations of every sort; abrupt awakening and thought: I think we're (each of us is) a colony, like a colony of bees . A collection of loosely interrelated entities, which light up in patterns; game board style . Also, each of us is isomorphic . We're inside a great colony of bees, any number and combination of which can light up at any one time . Like cells—in a battery . Any output (both each of us; and It). Clusters: each cell with a slightly different idea of what it'd be like; hence the otherwise inexplicable diversity and variety . We must function in some very loose physical arrangement, but with a field exchange created, such as social insects can be assumed to possess; each of us is that field (vide acupuncture), and the Great Mind is made up of diverse and even discrete physical entities which form an exchange field capable of a vast variety of interconnections or firing sequences of patterns . Arrangements are by commingling and by inter-signaling . Intensity and threshold are major features . It's a micro-collective, a vast macro-collective . My Dodgers stadium celebration dream suggests that one idea can be presented to a vast collection of cells and each processes it in an individualistic way, giving it slight modification; all cells share common purpose and memory and form an identity, but don't need to be mechanically linked . We and our environments form such interconnected cluster systems that mutually process information and alter it while exchanging it; we are all (humans) like a vast compound eye which shows a repetition of the motion of a single object but each cell reflecting slightly differently . Instead of saying, We are within a Great Mind (immanent mind) I would like to modify that and say, We are within a Great Brain, made up of countless cells as are our own (I mean many many cells, with an incredibly vast number of possible combinations of circuitry linkage). Whatever it is that it is doing, it may have parts, like our own brain (regions with functions associated thereto) or it may go on levels at different places, quantitative surges, etc . But there is a sort of control room part which can infuse and override autonomic functions; what we see is autonomic or reflexive brain-function except at crucial/exceptional times, when there is the equivalent to our consciousness ,
I am lying in bed here and I am musing ,
And then it came to me what you call this; you call it the Miracle of Transubstantiation . This is exactly what is believed to take place in the host, during the Communion . Exactly and precisely . What I saw that day in the alley and everything else I saw, God immanent, I have for over one full year tried on my own to develop the concept of transubstantiation . Well, it was not wasted time because what I did was prove the reality of the miracle of the Mass, and finally I pinned this down in terms of nomenclature and description . I just saw it on a wider scale; also, I did see it . I did see it . I saw it; the world as
I wrote of God manifesting himself in transubstantiation; but of course it is Christ . This now causes me naturally to wonder, No one ever reported seeing the miracle even in the objects of the Mass . How come I saw this (not how come it happened), but why extended, as I saw it? Also, it advances it down the time manifold, out of the distant past, into the medieval period anyhow...I should really go back over everything I've written over the whole 14 months and put the correct word Christ
[ 5:98] Today (after reading in the L.A. Times where a psychic says there is another life form on Earth smarter than we are, but that it lives in the water
) I decided to describe, without attempting to name, the entity which telepathically approached me in 3-74 . Its most salient quality, when I went to enumerate all of them, seemed to be not its thinking (mentation) but its knowing; it knew everything...and I reported, to myself, how it seemed to know things and events and people from inside, out from outside (external facts), but seemed to sweep them out at the very heart . And then I realized that I had given an excellent description of the Parakletos which Jesus in John
All the trillions of written pages I've seen in sleep...I'm sure they're equivalent to the spoken answers I heard in my head in my high school physics class (where I was awake and so couldn't dream). This is information of the highest kind, from the ultimate source: the Spirit of Truth, as Jesus explained it.
Mainly it gave me absolutely correct information (and insight) plus the zeal to put into action Handlungstreie based on that knowledge . Also, it seems likely that my preview of Fullerton (dream for 8 hours while awake back in 1971 of Mexico) plus the Tears dream, both of which had permanent effects on me, came from this source; there had been one source throughout and I think this is the historic name for it, and historic promise . Here are 4 examples of absolute for sure intervention . Maybe there have been others I never was aware of . Between example 1 (high school) and 3-74 lies 30 years—a huge gap, most of my life in fact . I ask, What about the horse dream in Canada? Look: again a horse; the Tears dream involves a posse of horses . The Vancouver dream—the horse attempting to leap the house, which was the Point Reyes house, where the Tears dream took place, attempting and failing—that told me something obscure but overwhelming.
I wrote my mother . The oracle ,
Thought: back 20 pages, where Joseph Campbell75 says ,
Oh, yes; I heard the voice one other time :
which was probably back around 1968/9, no later . As I wrote Phil Farmer, I knew it could not be my own thoughts or voice . I see now that beyond doubt that voice was the physics test
I had an infinitely complex insight today that it is just as easy to think of the future pushing the present into the past as to think of the past generating the present and moving toward the future; since we don't remember the future the way we do the past we don't discern these heavy events weighing on the present and forcing the present into annihilation, into the past . What our minds do is link everything in a sort of string, one after another, in the order in which we encounter them . Thus, if we reach into a fishbowl of numbered slips randomly distributed, we will write down as a linear sequence the numbers we draw . In whatever order or non-order we encounter events (experience them) our memory will arrange them on this linear track, as if they happened that way . Actually, they didn't happen (were not arranged) that way but only encountered that way . But, having lined everything up, we imagine the past in this orderly line, which is readily translated into a causal string because so arranged it has that look to it . Eventually in this way we create in our heads an enormous past pressing inexorably against the present to create the events of the future . But suppose we imagine everything in the present like a stage set, with actors; however, in the wings wait the set and actors for the next scene . These latter, dimly discerned, will inexorably push everything on the stage off eventually . It is not the prior act but the next act which exerts the force; conceive of the present as fragile or unstable, and this pressure from the wings becomes inexorable . Logically, this is as plausible as the idea of cause-and-effect from the past operating as force on the present . Also, if as Dr. NK says, time is energy entering a material system, perhaps it enters from the future—is the future; i.e., time has more charge, more force in the future, drains out into the spatial reality of the present, and at last dissipates down into the drain-off slot which is the used up past . This is a disturbing new view but oddly enough it coincides with my dream experiences, my precognition of events moving this way from the future; I feel them inexorably approaching, not generated from the present, but somehow already there but not yet visible . If they are somehow there
Eureka! I've been reading Rollo May's77 Love and Will . He describes Eros, the spirit of life, mediator between men and gods, partaking of the human and the divine; it is the élan vital of Bergson, Dionysos, it is especially Socrates' daimon—this is the voice I hear; this is what possessed
However, Dr. Bucke does advance one theory which might account for this, one which would be in accord with Jesus' cryptic parables about the mustard seed, the leaven in the bread, etc .; Dr. Bucke says he thinks this is an evolutionary advance, the next step up . In the past certain precursors of the New Man appeared (e.g., Socrates, Jesus). Dr. Bucke thought the frequency would increase soon . This ties in with Bergson's élan vital, too, and with Eros as the push of life forward in evolution . This is how God works . This is how God has always worked, from the day creation began: progressively, successively, continuously . Day day.
Got my right hemisphere to fire . Instinctively knew how to do it: the ortho-molecular vitamins, the manta, etc . Did like the bird in building a nest . Made myself a nest and then lay down to wait, expecting . And it came . The golden fish necklace told me it was time; I began my work, like the worm constructing its cocoon . In order to die, in its original primal lower form, to be remade into a better newer creature! To fly up from the sea
I imagine these jumps forward, back to the Cambrian Period, are associated with pain and stress and a great deal of uncertainty and fear . The creature toils alone, under duress, staggers or ventures out into the unknown, to his species anyhow...he must exhaust all the possibilities which they still rely on for better or worse; he must try, be urged on by the life force, the élan vital, to break new ground . He suffers, maybe fails . Exhausted, oppressed, but finally the night ends—maybe—in gasping victory . The bright light floods over him from above, signal he's succeeded! The Jewish-Christian myth which says that we once had these faculties and lost them—devolved—might be true, and it certainly would explain my anamnesis, as well as the view Plato and Empedocles held . However, it is also possible that this myth was instilled in us (never mind how) in order to push us toward this as a goal in the future, whether indeed we had such faculties or not; this might be the only way such an ideal state could be expressed for those earlier cultures . The Fall
( 1) Perceptual acuity . Expressed in terms of the Spirit of Truth, the change makes it possible to not be deceived; one cannot be lied to; one sees into the ontological nature of things, and the falsity of words ceases to operate on him . (
As I predicated the new kids would be .) I can theorize that this is accomplished by a sort of relief map achieved by the superimposition of data processing by both hemispheres; data are compared and in some fashion the real or true or authentic is distinguished perceptually; maybe what agrees—that is, when both hemispheres agree, reach the same conclusion—then the colors I saw are experienced . It literally looks different, even in print . Like 3-D compared to flat . This is almost an advance in the use of color for a fundamental perceptual purpose, not present employed . If logos is defined as
I saw the meaningful structure of reality (the logos), and there was constant change in it (everything around me) because it is alive and possesses activity because it possesses mind . We ask, Why do we experience time (i.e., change)? And the answer is, This living reality is evolving—perfecting itself . We're within it so I guess we are a subpart of it, also alive and also changing—evolving—toward completion; it is a great entelechy.
The systole, dystole in-out breathing is what we experience perhaps as the interaction of expansion and contraction, which is also what is meant by the oscillations of palintropos harmonie . These two movements could give rise to an objectification into Form One and Two, or the X and Y forces of the ICC,79 or Yin (contraction) and Yang (expansion or inhalation). If indeed we are within a living breathing (in the sense of inhaling, exhaling) creature, no wonder we have such concepts as pneumena, psyche, etc . This could even be related to the cyclic expansions and contractions of the universe; the universe, right now, is inhaling! Or, the expansion is its growth . What we experience are its constant rhythms . We as a species have fallen below the level (threshold) of consciousness; i.e., into darkness
Re: To Scare the Dead . A character based on Jim Pike (with quite another name). Based on firsthand knowledge I had of his private life, e.g., with Maren in the Tenderloin, and the kind of man he was . This could be a major, if not the major character; but it would not be he who would have the Experience; that would be had by another, perhaps after this fine bishop person dies (is killed?). Thus, in addition to the whole Essene awakening in the mind theme, we have the theme of the great bishop concerned with civil rights who mysteriously dies suddenly . What occurs to me right off is that the viewpoint character (Nicholas Brady) knows the bishop in the capacity of spying on him for the authorities (due to the bishop's civil rights stands and associations). Later, after the bishop dies, Brady has the Experience, and it seems to have (or has) something to do with the late bishop . Maybe there is in it information as to foul play (
) about the bishop's ostensibly accidental death . Despite the fact that he is a government part time agent, the v-p character would be disturbed; this goes too far . Also, we can have it that the bishop's son
Still, this is what it seems to be: saint possession; i.e., psychic possession by a dead saint . However, it turns out that Brady has experienced that which the bishop had all his life wanted to achieve and failed to . Brady is in contact with the Holy Spirit . (Now, we have to give a reason . The only one that would work would be, the bishop was murdered; the republic is in danger . You can't murder a bishop without God getting angry and telling people; you can't keep it hushed up .) (Psalm 116 :
should turn out to be another false lead, since it isn't the bishop back at all . This goes with that false occult idea, namely that it is the bishop's ghost from the other side ,
To shore up the plot: Brady inherits (why?) a lot of the Bishop's correspondence...oh sure, in his capacity for the government; he is poring over it doing intelligence work (even though the bishop is dead, there may be something useful about the activity of others). Brady has told the widow that he wants the notes
[ 5:127] Reading all this religious literature I can see now that for everyone, God is simply the explanation of how the universe got here—i.e., how it came into being; someone had to create it, the First Cause Uncaused which
Viewed this way it is evident that without realizing it, I have always been seeking God within or behind the walls and objects, the surfaces of this world . My whole conception of the world—reality—is radically different from that of other people . This is why for as long as I've known about a Paraclete I expected him to somehow show up here, as a person—as a seemingly ordinary piece of this world, looking like other actually ordinary pieces . This is my first realization of the connection between my years of radical epistemology and my experience of 3-74 et al . I kept looking beneath . I sensed that the ordinary concealed the extraordinary, and that the latter perhaps was alive, had volition, was more powerful than men (although I often supposed it to be malign); I sensed it camouflaging ordinary reality—a crucial point! (Is not the Real Presence camouflaged as ordinary bread and wine during communion?) Hence, I postulated it long before (decades before) I experienced it . The assumptions of other people perhaps preclude this authentic experience . As we know in science, our preconceptions determine the outcome.
So what I've done (supra) is change the question from, How come I could experience God? to the question, How come other people can't? Which new version assumes my experience to be natural (however rare). What blocks or prevents others perhaps in their Worldview or presuppositions? Answer: plenty . As Joseph Campbell says about the Occident :
Lem may have noted and meant this when he spoke of me
( Finding, I mean, in the trash of the gutter .) I trained my telescope (when the chance came, via the Holy Spirit) down at the gutter instead of to the stars—with outstanding results . Still, an extraordinarily important change from the status quo is indicated by the message ,
God may be here, may never have left, but His wisdom, I would guess from this, will mount and prevail in the future . The schism between us and him—the fall—will be ironed out . Perhaps the awareness, the experience, the dialog which I've had will become common to men . (Will my books have helped?) (Ubik, I guess, especially .) Back to Parmenides and the All behind the many (in St. Thomas, Jesus says ,
Perhaps a sign of its proximity will be a growing difficulty by the authorities throughout the world in governing . And a positive decentralization of power and authority . The causes may be dreadful, intrinsically (breakdowns, etc .); but, unrecognized, they would lead to excellent results, someday . This would have enormous importance for characterization in To Scare the Dead . If I had to account rationally myth, that of the death of Christ, is the only one we have, the only one which survived of all the mystery religions and other cults and religions of the antique world . We're allowed to celebrate that, but that is it . Still, it's all there . Dionysos, Zagreus, Osiris, Adonis . (JC is in this case Joseph Campbell, not Jesus Christ supra .) At a certain point Christ is actually present, in the wafer and wine and also He becomes the priest, and we are once more there again; we have found our way back, a concept contained in the religion itself; viz: the dead god who returns to life . The cyclic repetition which takes place in the mass governs also the concept of why the mass is spoken and what it is about . Our god died, and was buried (gone), but then He returned . So saying, the priest therewith becomes Christ, proving the authenticity, the rightness, of the whole religion and the whole service.... It is as if each time the mass (or Last Supper ,
) was secretly celebrated by the early Christians, they got to unfold their miracle, about Jesus, for their own eyes alone, invisible to the (Roman-secular) world.
as Oberon puts it.82 I can imagine the impact in the early days of the Fish Christians when they gathered in stealth to perform the feast of agape . New people who had never actually known Jesus could be brought in one by one, and this shown to them . Suddenly He would be there, only not as a mortal but in His transformed state (as I experienced Him). He would be all through them, the celebrants.
as Campbell says . This abrogation of time might not be so startling at first, during the actual Roman era; but later on, as in my situation...suddenly back again.
The strangest idea, though, of all that comes to me is to envision a group of followers who have the authentic holy-possession experience which I had...and then retrospectively they cast back to try to figure out who it was—exactly the way I did; I decided it was Jim Pike because he was a holy man who I had known who recently died; the early Christians would assume, by the same logic, that it was Jesus . In each case the individuals would trace it back to the first reasonably likely person, real or mythical . In my thinking here I'm reversing what is the customary causal flow writers assume, theirs being that the postmortem experience is manufactured to fulfill the wishes of the followers; i.e., the connective chain works in temporal sequence . My question now, when you consider before Christianity were the other Greek mystery religions and before that Tammuz and Adonis and especially Osiris in Egypt—can we be sure these different religious groups are experiencing different entities—or rather isn't it just the names which differ? And if it is all one entity which holy-possesses all of them, under a variety of names (call it Jim Pike, Jesus or Osiris), then what in actuality is this holy spirit who has distinct human but transfigured personality? (In my case, if not Jim Pike then who?) Maybe a demiurge or mediating spirit which has no copula possibility; i.e., no intrinsic name, such as we have? Maybe—after 14 months all I really know is that I don't know anything except that it happened to me, and what I saw during that short time was real . That's not much to come down from the mountain with, for the edification of my people . Maybe there just is no common language between our space-time universe and the Eternal World, or common concepts; or ours just don't really apply . [...] I can see where it is an enormous task, really beyond our ability, when we (I mean religious leaders, those actually into forming religions and subsects) struggle with such a titanic fiery wind from another universe, a far vaster reality in all respects...trying to codify it, put it into linguistic categories, trying to figure it out, cope with the enormous paradoxes which effortlessly transcend and defy human reason—priests from the time of the Cro-Magnon through Sumer, Egypt, the Greek mystery religions, on down to Calvin and Luther and Tillich—we're all getting massive headaches and sitting up all night trying and trying to explain to ourselves and to write it down coherently...the secular world supposes that religion is a fake and a snare and we've got nothing to offer but a lot of flak talk, but in fact the reality behind the words is so far removed from what we can comprehend that our problem is really trying to reduce it and make our kind of sense out of it, and always failing, failing, and never giving up, knowing what it means but never being able to get it right, never, never, always seeing something new or previously unseen, always understanding it better, giving up and then starting over, getting closer and closer; wondering if we were meant to try this . But it's a way of remembering what happened . Of recalling it . The prolonged, arduous work shows that something happened . As they say in modern semantics and philosophy: the word banana points to something which we call a banana but isn't, because banana
If I were going to pick one tantalizing aspect I can't account for, and would give an arm and a leg to do so, it is that when my experience began I had the acute impression, absolutely real and unshakable, that I had been seeing the universe backward all my life, or somehow inside-out, which is also the same as backward—reversed, going in the wrong way, which means that I had suddenly begun to see it not just going in the opposite direction, but correctly, at last . It wasn't just time alone going in reverse; it was like instead of being inside a sphere-like universe, I was now outside on the skin . Inside was outside, the future was controlling the past, the smallest least valuable objects assumed tremendous importance, there was solemn and vital information in near-silence . And then I read in the Gospel of Thomas where Christ says something like ,
etc., except he says ,
as if that is the one constant.83 Maybe it's a Jungian psychological reversal of all functions and aspects of the psyche, the not-I becoming the I, etc . But—"random"juxtapositions of writing produced meaningful—God-sent, in fact—information.
From a total relaxation (a giving up) of the automatization of perception, the
each of us builds—through weariness or despair or fear; it breaks down to reveal the koinos kosmos beneath, which to our surprise is like the Magic Garden . My contribution to Deikman's study of this is, We like to be able to recognize everything . To know (label) what it is . Our early textbooks teach us to do this (horse, cow, cat, mother). Once we have identified everything, then reality has passed away and we're in a world of the familiar, stuck there because we wanted it that way (it's frightening not to know where you are and what things are around you, when you're little). It's a form of scientific-magic; it depotentiates the menacing and the hostile by abolishing the unknown . The word (category, a sort of ersatz logos) replaces reality, as in Time Out of Joint; it's perceptual stereotyping . Lazy vision . The trouble is, sitting here for instance, I do know what each object is . I know its name . I know its purpose, what it does, etc . I can't unknow that this is a typewriter, this here my light, this over here the air conditioner . How am I going to get back—regress—to the Magic Kingdom (
86). Well, switch from my left to right hemisphere, maybe . There are close-scrutiny techniques, of the visual mantra type (stare at one object for weeks). This at most, though, might provide methods or techniques for seeing what is there, beyond the semi-verbal model; there is still, upon having seen, the problem of conveying and comprehending it . I think we as a species really have fallen ,
Parmenides' notion of the All and how it must be, contrasted to what we experience: he described it as radially symmetric, which I understand as being the same everywhere . If this is so, then theoretically one could comprehend the structure of the whole upon any authentic encounter with it (perception of it), no matter how small the segment, sector, in time and space . This recalls to me my three lives dream in which I was first in an alternate world where I was famous and flew everywhere, and then very poor in a Mexican or Italian town, and in the dream the fan-shape triune sections were extended to show that no matter where or how you took a core sample or segment or fragment, from it the extremes on each side could advance out fan-blade like, with a Tao always created in the center . Each partial life was generated into a state of triune completeness (too little; just right [balanced]; too much). I sensed/watched the slimmest sample expand into what, in terms of universal constants, was an entire world; I don't think you could cut it too small to exclude that spontaneous process of total regeneration of World . That means that the All is immediately palpable (
87), if viewed at all; I mean, if it is seen it is not seen partially, in an impaired way (as we always see reality). This is the opposite of the blind men with the elephant situation . Now, the implications of this if as I believe God is an immanent God are enormous—in fact, this might account for what I experienced, because given immanence, then when you encounter Him in the alley you have encountered him completely, just as much so as if you met Him in heaven, in the caelum . It is not like a portion of god (analogous to a hand or arm of one of us). Like Kozyrev's theory of time, the whole thing
Anyhow, regarding this projection-from-every-point-of-the-complete All, then any glimpse of it (as I say) would be an encounter with its totality, and would by definition not be partial and therefore probably more than could be comprehended . No matter how gently filtered or muted, or revealed in progressive degrees of emergent clarity, by the time the encounter was over, the mortal creature would be amazed . Later, he would find himself trying to depict an infinitude in ordinary words; which is to say, he would find that which he experienced to be inexhaustible . Probably he would keep trying, and wonder why . (I.e., why even if it lasted only a little while he can't completely describe it or explain it .) He would forever be trying to fully explicate (or explain at all) what he saw along the gutter here and there which shone, saw in a time-period of 3 minutes one day and is greater than the universe . Put another way, it seems reasonable that if after 14 months of unending exegesis, reading, studying, pondering, etc., one has still failed to even begin to account for what one saw in those 3 minutes—when in fact more remains to explain and understand than ever—then there is reason to believe the vision authentic . The fact that one can't say (explain or account for) may reveal more than if one could . That it would be the complete deity, even when scaled down to a micropoint, would explain the striking account of Elijah finally encountering God in the
