[ 6:66] Upon rereading [>]:
Suddenly, just when I was beginning to think I had nothing going here, my rereading 50 pages and seeing this verification-point gives me renewed enthusiasm . The structure checks out . If there is exponential decomposition (entropy) in our universe (and this view is universally accepted), were Ubik as thought formation to arc across directly from the time-frame in which I originally conceived it to 3-74—one could anticipate such surging vitality, such energy and power: Astral determinism Fate
[ 10:28] Now—consider what my advisor does: she periodically feeds newness (input) into me from outside me, so I am not (now) a closed system . This is why she so often corrects me . But advises only periodically . She is my self-monitoring feedback input energizing signal-integrity-strengthening cut-in astral determinism
[ 10:49] Who is the woman who whispers to me?
But—who is Thomas? One to whom the Holy Spirit came . Thus with a single swift punch of the needle
[ 10:78] AI voice :
I am like the forest bird in Siegfried.
7 I.e., a dove . The dove . And
[ 10:79] 4:00 A.M. Voice :
This is a life form! (I.e., Valis, who was present at the moment of birth 3-74, the apotheosis!) She took an apostolic Christian's psyche and transferred it into me (as its new womb) for it to grow through gestation to full birth as the deity, and if an apostolic Christian is her progeny, she is Christ/Paraclete/God—the Paraclete producing the second birth; this answers the question put to Jesus ,
He is an old child, playing at draughts, moving according to the rules.
AI Voice . And
[ 13:9] Perhaps my most important realization while loaded is what is implied in the way of paradoxes if the statement ,
is true . The infinity of the first part (
) is dialectically balanced by the null infinity (
[ because it] is inexorably replaced by the dialectic generation of its opposite). What such an infinity countered by an antithetical infinity would lead to is (1) an infinite number of universes of (2) no measurable duration—from outside; but in each universe there would be what I must regard as a pleroma of spurious (subjective) time, sufficient within the universe, but not there when viewed from outside that universe . What I deduced from this is that each self passes through an infinitude of universes or frames, each with laws—truths—of its own, but the permutation being so fast (instantaneous), no memory of it is laid down by the self, whose entire memory is instantly derived from situational cuing generated within and by whatever frame he is now in . However, some truths could (in the intrinsic statement of them) contain as part of their definition that of ubiquity, in which case what I call sustains would be created which would lay down memory, but since other aspects of the frames would differ one from another, one's true memory would be of serial disjunctions along the linear time axis without any apparent explanation . (E.g. ,
—viz: first century A.D. Rome and USA 1974 both contained the same sustain—the Golden Fish sign—but no other sustains; nonetheless the self passed from first century Rome directly to USA 1974 due to the Golden Fish sign but drew ersatz memory of life in modern USA generated by situational cues in this frame .) There is an explanation and it lies in what I call sustains, which resemble the form axes I described in Ubik and which do not lie along linear time, but rather sustain time, which is my word for Plato's eternal forms.
This vision came in response to my Q :
[ 13:13] The Encyclopedia of Philosophy says ,
[ 13:22] Coleridge on tragedy :
12). So the essence of tragedy is the limited human knowledge, plans, hopes, desires (will) clashing with
The plans the protagonist has are not in harmony with a
Tragedy as an interim reading of life between religion on the one hand, and Satanism, or pessimistic materialism, on the other . Basic to tragedy is the equilibrium of the evil that is observed and the good that is guessed at . What is central is the balance between an intense awareness of pain or evil, which is clearly revealed, and an intuitive apprehension of a transcendent realm of values . In each case evil is affirmed, but it is transcended by a higher good which induces exultation, not despair or faith . The balance is destroyed when evil is denied or seen as remedial or is affirmed as ultimate.
I suppose in terms of what Coleridge says, the higher intelligent will Fate is proved right in the end . I.e., it is proved to be just that, a higher intelligent will and not fate in the sense of blind or malignant evil or purposelessly cruel force or forces as such; it is the revelation that Fate is not Fate but a wiser (higher
But this does not inspire faith and is not accepted (known) on or by faith . Exultation comes not from faith, which would provide only passive acceptance or resignation, but from an encounter with fate
That which had masked itself as fate (in mimesis) reveals this camouflage and in stepping forth acts in revelation of a deliberately hidden, different, even opposing nature . It is not fate at all . Higher intelligent will is not fate, if the term is to retain its correct meaning . Something or someone has mimicked fate, perhaps supplanting it invisibly: replacing it perhaps by insidiously devouring it and substituting itself for it in perfect imitation, at its source . This is a staggering mystery, but mystery it is, since the stipulation of capacity for perfection of imitation when desired is attributed . It will look like fate as long as it wants to look like fate, but if it cares to disclose itself as actually being a higher intelligent will (if it even does so) it then can, and the problem is solved . (By the way I define Fate higher intelligent will
The mystery of the guessed at reality would certainly deepen—but become even more reassuring—if I suspected that in some supernatural fashion this higher intelligent will
Exultation is precisely my response to my direct knowledge and experience of Valis, of my awareness of its authority over the irrational—which I identify with astral determinism fate.
[ 13:41] I found a typed page starting :
More and more this binary computer model of Valis seems to be the correct one . On is the linking of two parts which I saw: on off equals disjunction or not inclusion in the vast assembly which I equate with Valis . Put another way I saw high speed linking as the primary activity of Valis . This was simply its on mode, so it must be everywhere, and what I construed as Valis vs. non-Valis was on off of a binary computer . Then everything is the computer whether linked or not—whether the assembly (what I called Valis
These are neural connections in a brain . On connect off disconnect . There is an evolution toward connection: toward a developing macrothought in which everything is connected: worked in as relevant . Then there is something other than just a binary on-off computer . On more and more predominates over off on . on as a means to developing a total all-parts interaction . Off could be regarded as a lack, a failure, a defeat, an impediment to be overcome . We still have a binary system, but priority (plus value) is given to on.
Then there are two orders of reality (set to ground?). The on or junctions (which is higher or set), and off as disjunction (which is lower as ground): this might explain, then, the discrimination of set to ground which I achieved: on to off . Linked to unlinked, Valis to not-Valis—and even more ultimately, the ultra-thought to the not-yet- [part of] -ultra-thought . What I call Valis ,
( 2) What Valis
One could say that
which I construe as going on is the deliberate, purposeful formation by a computer brain—using a binary system—of an ultimate thought which can be regarded (1) as activity or process; or (2) as a thing: the thought as network of interlinked neurons
My God—the causal train melting! The ultra-thought was (seen by me) forming before my very eyes . This is the override I saw, the modulation—the changes in reality including me . I was incorporated into the ultra-thought which I have termed Valis . —the vast knowledge all at once available to me—this is the ultra-thought . All that Hermetic transtemporal Gnosis is contents of the ultra-thought . Reality as knowledge . This Hermetic
[ 13:44] I am building a terrific system here, with the binary computer, macrobrain, and ultra-thought, and the frames through which we move (prior thought formations objectified giving rise to new belief systems, etc .), reality—physical reality—as knowledge, and the form axes, the inner other universe of the immortals, the supermen who are trans-spatial and trans-temporal dwelling in the inner universe and hence outside of clock time B, and who emerge into the exterior universe repeatedly (and undetected by other people) and Ormazd vs. Ahriman being the on off of the binary computer, and the nature of true memory (anamnesis) vs. current frame clue false
14 Plus the possible misuse of the computer by someone, and its designer guiding us as a low murmuring voice against the misuse by this irrational operator demiurge; i.e., Satan who has taken control of creation and the rational (thought) forming and growing and complexifying in the midst of the irrational (i.e., misuse of the computer program): the antithetical strife between the rational (thought) and the irrational, with the former cannibalizing the latter to self-construct, until finally it is—has incorporated—everything . And the orthogonal leap from track A (Tears) to track B (this reality) being a quantum growth—leap of the rational ultra-thought or Valis; and the dialectic of the binary computer inevitably driving everything along: the logical antinomies in sequence . And the possibility of seeing Valis (the ultra-thought) as set to ground, and its activity of self-construction . And salvation
What, oh what, if it were true that in 1945 at Nag Hammadi the actual sacred living (information/logos) blood of Christ was unearthed, and through it, he was restored to the world (the plasmate
[ 13:46] Pythagoras had a strange cosmogonical belief: a seed (male) inserted into the boundless (female) which then progressively grows by incorporating more and more of the atelos (incomplete or unbounded) into its carefully limited (telos) structure—a process
This view of careful limitation (boundaries) being the essential basis of kosmos sounds like the linking and arranging I saw Valis doing, and this seed sounds like the rational Valis invading the greater (boundless) irrational or non-kosmos . Also the term kosmos
[ 39:1] The 3-74 miracle began in 1971 at the time of the taco stand Mexico Thomas was taken directly to 2-74 and Orange County, bridging '71 to '74—arcing across . My taco stand experience was the other half of Thomas taco stand experience was of being in 1974 in Fullerton and Placentia . Not April 72 but 2- or 3-74 . And then (maybe) returned to 71 in Marin County, at the end of the approximately 8 hour RET15 taco stand
[ 39:8] Hypnagogic vision: the Xerox missive seen as enticing red apples: recapitulation of man's temptation and fall (but he saved me). Also something about healers and I'm not supposed to understand 3-74 . The healers ,
[ 39:9] Then it wasn't just an overthrow of the Nixon tyranny; it was an overthrow of the world of Tears or rather not overthrow, but it was caused not to have been—and Track B was (ex nihilo) created in its place, and then Nixon was overthrown in Track B . A further lifting of Rome or Babylon (which, as my 2nd Coming Bible
As one review of Tears pointed out (which I hadn't realized)... an alternate—not just future—world was pointed to: e.g., the Civil Rights Movement of the Sixties seems to have failed, especially regarding Blacks . And then the dream, God intervenes, and, in the book, the Genocide Laws regarding Blacks have never existed in the world of the book; after the dream it is our world, apparently . The dream marks the switch, and the dream is of God inbreaking into history—not to mention the King Felix cypher . So the book and the cypher don't point (just) to a future intervention in Track B . But to a track switch with synchronized memory switch which has already taken place :
The key to me (Thomas) is: millennialism . Here Christianity and Marxism unite . (The PTG in place of the BIP .) Via Track B (the overthrow of the U.S. police state). In essence, the real (secret) Christians are communists, and the real (secret) communists are Christians . * The dangerous vision in Faith of ...
Thomas, as a dedicated Marxist revolutionary, wouldn't be thinking inwardly of himself the way we would regard him; his own inner view would be of a liberator and healer and an agent of God's historical plan—a modern Christian . Would we expect him to view himself as vicious and evil and cruel? Consider Che . No—Thomas views himself as ushering in the millennial kingdom of freedom and peace and equality and justice, and who is to say he's wrong? He is an idealist, but very shrewd (true) and energetic (true). From his viewpoint he is a true, secret Christian, which I never grasped before . And he perceives capitalism as enslaving! I.e., Rome the BIP . This explains why I said what I said at Disneyland about shooting the Watergate conspirators; that was Thomas speaking, and it emanated from idealism . This is a totally dedicated idealist determined to free mankind from the tyranny of the past . He belongs to a covert conspiratorial group which practices violent overthrow of the government and revolution . This is why
Yet also she exists in micro form plural in our world . This is the hermetic
It's fun playing by St. Sophia: the joyous side of wisdom: these ultimate puzzles—little stories, like long parables (e.g. ,
Wisdom as a verbal riddle: its most microform, most condensed so in a sense most esse (onto). Then the smallest form (level) of it is the most real . Size is inversely proportional to hierarchical reality . We assume cosmic = most important = largest . (Cosmos = cosmic .) Wrong . Look for the seed.
