as a self-organizing dissipative structure that is simultaneously a whole and a part of a larger whole, and ultimately of a holarchy
35 . This occurs in chapter 6 of The Divine Invasion, where Dick gives the character Galina the fish dream that he mentions throughout the Exegesis, beginning in 1975 (
38 . The practice of Manichaeism involved strict dietary laws . The elect avoided foods thought to be dark (including meat) in favor of foods containing more light ,
40 . (Latin) Law of retribution . (Frequently linked, though Roman in origin, to the legal principle of
43 . In Mt 27:46 and Mk 15:34, Jesus quotes the opening verse of Ps 22 from the cross :
48 . The term secrecy theme refers to Jesus's commands to his disciples not to reveal that he is the Messiah . Passages on the Messianic secret The Pulley
56 . This may be the AI Voice trying out its German . Roughly ,
59 . Ted Sturgeon's 1971 story Dazed
Acts: The Book of Acts in the New Testament, written by the same author as the Gospel of Luke, tells the history of the early apostolic age following the death and resurrection of Christ . It is sometimes called
AI Voice: Artificial Intelligence Voice, sometimes called Voice Spirit . A term coined by Dick for the hypnagogic voice that he heard often in 1974–75 and intermittently until his death . Many of the voice's sayings are recorded in the Exegesis . Despite the term, Dick does not consistently hold that the voice is technological in nature . He often characterizes it as female
ajna chakra: The so-called Third Eye, one of seven chakras or wheels
Androids: One of Dick's most morally complex novels, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? (1968) was optioned and produced as the Ridley Scott film Blade Runner (1982). Left on the cutting room floor was the novel's fictional religion, Mercerism ,
anima (Latin): Translation of Greek term psyche, meaning life soul.
Anokhi (Hebrew): A form of the personal pronoun meaning I I myself . In Dick's use, it refers primarily to Exodus 20:2: Anokhi YHWH Elohekha). More generally for Dick, anokhi stands for self-awareness and consciousness . The Transmigration of Timothy Archer (1982) features discussion of the Anokhi mushroom ,
Atman (Sanskrit): The eternal Self or divine core of the human being, distinct from the ahamkara (literally, the I-maker
Augenblick (German): Literally, eye view
Bergson, Henri (1859–1941): A French philosopher who won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1927, Bergson was known for his theories of duration and élan vital, the lively impetus that distinguishes living systems from machines . With his concept of duration, Bergson hoped to describe the qualitative nature of the subjective experience of time rather than the objective measurements of the clock . Dick's experience of non-linear
Boucher, Anthony (1922–1968): Science fiction editor, author, and friend of Dick's . As editor of the Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, Boucher purchased the first story Dick sold, the tale Roog Chains...Web: The short story
Claudia: Claudia Krenz Bush, a graduate student at Idaho State University who corresponded with Dick while working on her master's thesis . Dick later refers to his early Exegesis as
crypte morphosis (Greek): Latent shape or form . One of the Greek phrases that came to Dick in his dreams in 1974 . In the Exegesis he interprets the phrase in light of Heraclitus's fragment 54 ,
and fragment 123 ,
cybernetic: Term coined by Norbert Wiener for the science of communication and control in human and machine systems; earlier coined by the French scientist André-Marie Ampère to denote political science . Wiener drew the term from the ancient Greek term kybernetes, for steersman
Deus sive substantia sive natura (Latin): A dictum of Spinoza on the unity of God and nature; in an interview, Dick translated this concept as
einai (Greek): From the Aristotelian phrase to ti en einai (roughly, the what-it-was-to-be
Eleusinian Mysteries: The most important of the ancient mystery religions, these secret initiation ceremonies were held annually in ancient Greece for over a millennium.
engram: The biophysical imprint of events on memory . An important word in Dianetics, where it refers to the recordings stored in the reactive mind, the term is generally used in the Exegesis to denote the latent patterns that predispose the mind to respond to the trigger events that produce anamnesis . In VALIS (1981), Dick uses engram to describe a ritual in which Thomas prepares to Frozen Journey: Original name for the story
Galápagos turtle: In a 1981 interview with Gregg Rickman, Dick describes a nature documentary he viewed in the 1960s in which a female Galápagos turtle crawled the wrong direction after laying her eggs in the sand and began to die from exposure while still moving her limbs . That night Dick heard a voice tell him that the turtle believed that she had made it back to the ocean, adding ,
It was one of Dick's few experiences with the AI Voice
Gestalt: A German term describing an entity's holistic essence or form . Gestalt psychology attempts to characterize how our minds and brains select whole forms from a background of possible partial perceptions; this relationship is characterized as figure ground, which Dick generally recasts as set ground.
golden fish: On February 20 , 1974, a young woman working for a local pharmacy delivered a bottle of prescription Darvon tablets to Dick's apartment in Fullerton, California . She was wearing a necklace with a golden fish pendant, an ancient Christian symbol that had been resurrected by the countercultural Jesus movement
Hegel, G.W.F . (1770–1831): German philosopher of dialectical idealism . Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit offers readers an epic quest toward self-understanding as the thinker explores the limits and dynamics of rational thought learning to reflect on and comprehend itself . Hegel's dialectic was influential on Karl Marx, who famously
Heidegger, Martin (1889–1976): German philosopher whose work attempted to overcome what he perceived as the forgetfulness of being in the history of philosophy . Heidegger argued that habits of thought inherited from the Greeks induce human beings to focus on beings being —particular entities rather than that which enables entities to exist at all . Heidegger's conception of Dasein, or being-there ,
hermetic: An important strand of Western esoteric thought and experience, hermeticism derives from the Corpus hermeticum, a set of texts from late antiquity whose mystical and magical philosophy is perhaps best summarized in the famous dictum from the Emerald Tablet of Hermes Trismegistus :
Ho On, or Oh Ho: The name of a clay pot made for Dick by a friend . In an early hypnagogic vision, Dick heard the pot, which identified itself as Oh Ho, speak to him in a brash, irritable tone about spiritual matters . Later, Dick theorized that the name Oh Ho might be related to the Greek phrase Ho On, meaning He Who . ho on appears in Exodus 3:14, when God identifies himself as
hypostasis (Greek): Literally, beneath-standing underpinning.
idios kosmos and koinos kosmos (Greek): Literally, private world communal world, respectively . The two phrases come from fragment 89 of Heraclitus :
Joachim of Fiore (c. 1135–1202). Theologian and mystic from Sicily . His concept of the three ages of history, which posits an imminent
Kant, Immanuel (1724–1804): German philosopher whose transcendental idealism sought to integrate knowledge based on experience (empiricism) with knowledge based on reason (for example, mathematics). Kant called for and in many ways achieved a Copernican revolution
King Felix: A two-word cypher that Dick discovered in the text of Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said (1974). On page 218 of the Doubleday hardcover, in the section describing Felix Buckman's visionary dream, the words king and Felix appear vertically juxtaposed between two lines of text . Dick became convinced that this happenstance phrase had a secret meaning and would be read and recognized by people or forces unknown . Felix fortunate happy.
Kozyrev, Nikolai, NK, or Dr. NK (1908–1983): Russian astrophysicist who carried out research at the Pulkovo Observatory . His 1967 article
Lem, Stanislaw (1921–2006): Polish writer of science fiction, philosophy, and satire . Contributed
Logos (Greek): Word, account, reason . Heraclitus used the word in the sense of order; in Christianity, an important tradition derives from the Gospel of John, in whose first lines Christ is identified as the Logos, the eternal Word Reason
monad: The philosopher Leibniz described the things in the world as independent but interconnected entities—which he called monads
noös, or nous (Greek): Mind, reason, divine or human . Associated words are noetic (adjective; of the mind) and noein (verb ;
noösphere: Geophysicist Vladimir Vernadsky argued that, along with the biosphere, lithosphere, and atmosphere, the earth has acquired a mental or psychic sphere: a noösphere created through thought and focused attention . Pierre Teilhard de Chardin popularized the concept of noösphere in his treatment of Point Omega.
orthogonal time: Moving perpendicularly to the conventional and spurious sense of linear time, orthogonal time is, for Dick, time in its genuine mode . In a 1975 essay ,
Dick describes orthogonal time as containing within a simultaneous plane
Palmer Eldritch: Industrial magnate who unleashes psychedelic havoc in Dick's The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch (1965) after he returns from the Proxima system as a drug-dealing demiurge . Eldritch's three stigmata are based on the vision of a
panentheism: A metaphysical and religious doctrine holding that God (theos) is both transcendent and immanent, both beyond all and yet in all (pan-en-). This teaching is sometimes portrayed through the image of the cosmos as God's body, God's relationship to the universe being roughly analogous to the mind's relationship to the body—again, both in beyond
Pantocrator (Greek):
