Last night as I listened to the phono I found myself sitting close to a color photo of Victoria Principal, and her tawny skin and long black hair got to me...and then I saw she was on a leopard skin rug, with the same dappled spots . * Beneath the dapple of the fawn is the dapple of the leopard; both are protective coloration, and the god of fawns has two sides . Do you really think Erasmus would have been so filled with mirth? Hence vain melancholy— etc . Vain deluding . Left out key (ah, how key!) word . But maybe Erasmus, that pious Christian scholar, studying Greek, was the first, the very first, in our world, to resurrect Dionysus, as he labored at his scholarship . I had reckoned that the Holy Spirit seemed to have returned to our world about the time of Martin Luther, and Erasmus was a contemporary of his . Also, you will find the words perfect fool in my most recent notes, and Erasmus wrote
which is about the fool who is Christ . And Parsifal is a perfect fool
What lies hiding within each object? A garden, so to speak: the enchanted garden, but they relate to the past . Studying one photo of Victoria Principal, I noticed that her hairstyle made her look very much like the Mona Lisa, and then I saw that beneath it (Being) there was the Egyptian hairstyle of women . When I had seen the shot of her, which first drew me to her, it was because, I thought, she reminded me of Kathy . But the hairstyle contains bits of past words, much like pulp paper has fragments of colors from older sheets of paper . The paper
Sadly, I decline into the mundane (i.e., this second in time). I see something fascinating, though: the vines on the vestment of the saint...he had been painted with a simple design over and over again . Like this: (•) Big deal . Anyhow, over the years or even a century or two, dirt (can you believe it?) dirt has obscured the purity of the white, and has contaminated the repeated simple design, to connect many of the repetitions of the design, in wild, flowing patterns.
N.B . I just want to add: we see time to anchor our world of buzzing, blooming
You must read Arthur J. Deikman's paper ,
Deautomatization and the Mystic Experience.
In seeing the pattern of sense objects, where they're located, you see structure . In peeling away the layers you see into Being, but you do not see the forward growth of the entelechy of the form you peel away; you are going in the opposite direction, although along the proper axis . What is underneath are the previous steps in sequence (remember, I pointed out, sequence is very real; sequence is all important: it is pattern). This is the growth up to now, to the stage where it is vis-à-vis you . If you are to see what comes next you must move along the true (orthogonal) time axis in harmony with it: into the future, as all forms grow (as each frame is replaced by the next further-grown frame). They are a sequence of static frames for each entelechy, one edola following the next . Seeing what transparencies lie ahead is like the difference between stripping away successive layers of paint on an old bureau, or digging down through the strata of a buried city, versus imagining what layers would/will come next . Only the Logos can and does that; you can see the difference between previous layers in an Indian garbage mound, one after the other, and the hypothetical
This is real time (orthogonal time). But I think you and I et al . are limited to peeling back or looking back; we cannot see how forms will grow, because as they do grow they inter-relate, which is what we call the cosmos, and to see the future stage of the Plan is to see something which would elevate us and abolish us as we now exist . From my metaphor of the hurried artists sketching the one person sitting, at Disneyland, you can see that I believe that Christ is the completed form toward which all men move, this approximation, and it's getting closer and closer—we can guess, but we do not really know what Christ looks like, surely not those cruddy pictures of him all goopy-eyed . When we achieve that perfection—as we do—we may not recognize, not see, where it agrees, because (1) we are the sketches, not the artists, and (2) we cannot see the person being sketched...and yet, that person is ourselves . How strange...the sketches can't see the person being sketched, only the woman (the what?), the workman's hand as he sketches . But presumably the person being sketched looks like we, the sketches, do, and with woman
Is not one of our present concepts or visions of that Golden Age, perhaps our most powerful and authentic one, the vision of
which Yeats wrote of? 51 And was it not indeed these woods, the Isle of the Blest, which I at last experienced as I moved deeper into the Being, the heart of, orthogonal time? Did I not at last see the moonlight and the pale water, the arch, the quiet and harmony and beauty, of exactly that which Yeats said is gone and which we dream of still? (
Would it be unreasonable to speak of my first orthogonal vision, that of Urbs Roma, as the Age of Iron? And under that I found—what's next? Silver? That would be my first glimpse of the Hellenistic world which came before (linear time) or beneath (orthogonal), and then, at last, the absolute simplicity of what must be the Golden Age: the forests, which Euripides spoke of in the Bacchae (
I did not remember my previous state (anamnesis): I was restored to that state; which means someone restored me . That is God and God's grace . He brought it back to me or me back to it, rejoined or gave back . The Christian (Eucharist) anamnesis deals specifically with
i.e., Jesus Christ . * The event is anamnesis; the agency which causes it is adventitious and is the Savior . No man has intrinsically the capacity, by no knowledge or magic, to accomplish this restoration . In my case I detect evident pre-destination; first, it was impressed on me, this anticipation of the dark-haired stranger girl at the door; I used to expect the Paraclete coming to the door at any time, to render aid . From the beginning of my life, He laid down the necessary efficient causes to bring the transformation/restoration about . There was always evident intent, and on His part, not mine . It took an entire life time to bring me to that point in 3-74 . Step after step; led me, directed me . Not the girl at the door but that as the climax, the moment, and at the moment of extremity of peril for me, of the very desperate where no hope existed for me of being saved in any fashion unless all these steps had already been laid down . Her appearance at the door had that effect only as mere triggering release and because of manifold almost infinite preparatory steps . This was a life time process, not a single event . As an infant I was given dreams and experiences (e.g., with fish, the tunny , 52 the shark dreams, later on the Tiberius fish teeth necklace dream), without which her appearance and that fish necklace would have done nothing; it wasn't a magic amulet, as if the power resided in its intrinsic shape or properties . I could as easily have been engrammed on a—well, whatever He chose . It's like answering the question ,
with the answer ,
The analogy is a good one, because by holding back the key the car can be kept in a state of mere potentium throughout a theoretically unlimited period of lineal time . A person seeing it only in this potential mode might never guess what would happen when activated; better yet, there is really no way just by looking at a radio to tell what it does when turned on . The simple switching from off to on is no more than bringing into existence the true function of what was only an object; what it is has been revealed to be what it does . Teleology is all-important in this: its end-purpose . The metasystems perhaps can best be understood by this cybernetics model, by asking ,
The re-emergence of cyclic time would be the method of restoration . It is not logically evident that hyper or orthogonal time [OT] would of necessity be cyclic; at first I thought it was retrograde . However, it does differ from lineal time in that lineal time is only unidirectional (by definition). OT is two-way or many omnidirectional . Maybe you can hop on or into it wherever you choose . I am starting from the most extraordinary premise of all: that Roma c. 100 A.D. had just been here an instant ago, here in Fullerton 1974 . Both, really, were present, one removed or the other superimposed . Or, one seen by my left brain, the other by the other . Two totally separate channels of empirical space-time information, a double exposure . Yes, very much like an accidental double exposure . I do feel that the antique images regressed—Rome to Hellenistic Greece to Attic Greece to Crete—which implies retrograde time . Maybe cyclic is the wrong word; maybe orthogonal time, a specific sector, is summoned through penetrating via the print-out back to the Form which incises: from cluster of phenomena to archetype . That is not from lineal time to any other time; it is from time to—departure and reentry? Again, Plotinus seems to grasp it best . That and the Christian
Do this and recollect; once more we are back there again at the timeless and eternal moment c. 46 A.D. We are really there now . Real time, genuine time, ceased after He left; after that it's been only process time: true spinning your wheels
In truth, in very truth, the prophet, the authentic one, did not see events coming ahead in time; he saw into the heart, the true Being of the reality, saw into depth, not time . He writes about a memory of things which in fact all living men experienced, but none but he remember; that space-time matrix, when replaced with the new one, was accompanied by an analog change in their memories . They all had just lived through the events he described . The prophecies in the Bible describe the far past, the various prophets' pasts . Those events will never come; those prophets for some reason, God knows why, remembered how it was before the scenery got whisked away and new scenery whisked in place, and as fast as possible described their visions . God moves through time in retrograde from us; from completion back . We are not moving toward what the prophets (e.g., Book of Revelation) contains; if anything, that was erased and recorded over and left behind . Still, those written documents of prophetic visions are priceless because they give us a fantastically valuable clue to the nature of reality, which is that no space-time matrix is real; it is an idea which God tries out and then abandons if necessary . The visions are the also-rans ,
I think God trusted these special men, these prophets; He let them remember or see, whatever—there was purpose in this, socially speaking, because they could with great sincerity forever tell their peoples of the power of God . Also, it was a sort of mercy to those particular men, a genetic kindness to leave these memory traces, because those men knew, as no other men could or would ever know, that the apparent substantiality of their world was an illusion, that God and only God existed, and He could dissolve their world and them at any moment . He allowed these prophets (and probably the ones we know of are only a tiny fraction of the total) to actually perceive in all respects that this is an interval period for us, probably a time of trial or probation, of testing, that the goals and awards and pains and striving and goods and gains of this world are not merely temporary (
Somewhere in the libretto of Parsifal, Wagner suggests that the great holy magic which God casts onto the world is a protective veil of enchantment to shield humble, frail and timid very mild lives, so that we, being unable to discern them, won't hurt them; He creates the dokos, the veil, as an extending of His protection over them, for they have no other . Only we, the big crude cruel powerful strong hurtful creatures are visible . The veil is not to deceive us per se, but we must be deceived so that the little ones may live unseen ,
Each living thing feels impelled to move (to develop or change or grow) but can't locate the source of that urge . From what I saw and understood from 3-74 on, there is a total Plan (the Logos) which superimposes as a vast static—complete—blueprint pattern over a space-time continuum universe, the one we experience empirically: the one our senses tell us about . The superimposition of the Logos-Plan pattern causes all material reality, this entire space-time universe, to experience a certain stress to be other than it is, a certain urging to become . This abolishes any static quality within the space-time universe; it is compelled to grow by a necessity of its own nature (v. Spinoza), which is the will of God or the thinking of God as He conceives the plan . (For Him to conceive it is for this stress to be placed on everything in space-time without lapse; it follows that all energies or forces or dynamic fields are manifestations to us of His mind at work, and we are becoming aware that rather than a universe of matter in motion this is a universe of interacting far-ranging unified fields; that totality of the fields is probably His Mind, since I think Him to be immanent in universe, underlying it rather than above or outside it .) God is not Time; God generates or urges all things into development that the plan completes itself in continual creation . All we know is that things happen . More accurately, God is the urging-forward force within all things, and all things (if things
If there is a universe of anti-matter there may be a universe of anti-time; which would be retrograde time, or rather, elements moving retrograde to the matter—ourselves—which move forward in time . Thus time symmetry would be achieved this way . I saw this retrograde entity in late 3-74 . Normally we see it blended with forward moving elements such as ourselves . At the height of my mystic experience, which is to say, my extremely heightened perception of reality, I saw my environment decline in intensity; whereas at the same time I felt an inner self, my entelechy I suppose (I didn't have the concept then), grow dynamically; the balance shifted more and more from outer to inner, which could be regarded as psychologically withdrawing my projections from external reality and regaining them and their energy within my own total self . At the peak of this I experienced myself as very real and moving through virtually nonexisting things which had become so vitiated and dim that I supposed—and maybe accurately, although it was so astonishing that I drew back from this implication—that all non-living objects around me literally drew their lives, their existences, from me and from other living entities . We animated them, yes, but animated what? What is meant by them when this animating energy is withdrawn? Mere signaling systems to inform me of sequential whens: a series of signals, in specific order, arranged in order to release changes in me . Time, properly understood, is merely an awareness of the procession of these little, weak cueing signs, their advance as we encounter them; but they do not move; they are pattern-arranged and we ad vance forward, up the manifold, from one to the next and the next . There is really nothing in them but minimal—economic—transfer of information that one particular now has replaced the now (or prior signal) before it . We advance from signal to signal . The signals are unmoving, totally inert . We are driven inexorably; none of us can halt himself in that motion from signal to signal, since each one of the signals carries with it transfer-information to last until the next: each hands us over, as it were, when its now
This unitary organism which we call reality or the universe is most itself, most there, most alive, at completion, and since there is no time or time-force then it's there now drawing us toward it; we move, it stands still . Being more than the sum of all its parts, how can any one or even all of its parts resist it? How can the totality, the absolute pattern, be weaker or smaller than anything else? It would be like saying that before being assembled, the parts which go to make up a kit are somehow more effective that way, scattered about the living room rug, unconnected and unrelated to each other, not functioning at all, except in terms of the template or diagram which the workman is pondering, which accompanied them.
and surely the whole exerts a greater influence on those parts than they do mutually on one another or on it, or each on itself . This must be why Parmenides understood that no matter how many parts
Empedocles didn't actually remember having once been divine; he remembered that he was divine, would be divine . Here, verb forms mislead us; this is mere semantics . To remember immortality is to remember outside of time . I remember I realize I understand . I remember (anamnesis) equals I become (Being). Which equals
( v. Paul :
I have long thought about you, wondering how you are, and my having just now written the short enclosed piece, which is about Tony, gives me pretext to write you as well as the opportunity to extend this copy of the piece so that you might read it . My love and memory of Tony are combined in this, although I must admit in a rather odd way; the reason is that this was commissioned by the Sufi magazine The Real World, which is a very good magazine . It is put out by Tony Hiss, who writes the
Enclosed is the piece I've been working my ass off for The Real World . I'm glad you liked Tessa's poem, and that as you say you're going to pub lish it in the next issue, but that sort of puts pressure on me to come through—I've been on this piece like as of today 7:30 A.M. at the typewriter . You asked for short.
( 2) Okay—on my MS [>]: you could end the piece after line 10 . (Final printed sentence :
[ 5:14] 56 When I met Theodore Sturgeon, who wrote More Than Human, this good man said to me right off ,
Tony loved the universe and the universe frightened him, and I think I know where his head was at . A lot of people who are timid are that way because they love too much . They're afraid it'll all fall through . Naturally, it did with Tony . He died in middle-age . Now, I ask you, what good did it do him to be scared? He used to carry his rare old 78 records to radio station KPFA every week, wrapping them up in a towel so they wouldn't get broken . One time I decided to give Tony all my rare opera and vocal records, just plain give them to him as a gift of my loving him . I phoned him up.
I told him . Tony replied shyly ,
He was a Roman Catholic—the only one we knew—and that was a strong statement . Before I could get the records to him he was dead.
he had added.
We used to play poker . Tony loved opera and poker and science fiction and mystery stories . He had a little writing class—this was after he was famous and edited F & S-F—and he charged one dollar a night when you showed up . He read your whole manuscript . He told you how rotten it was, and you went away and wrote something good . I never figured out how he accomplished that . Criticism like that is supposed to crush you.
somebody said . A whole dollar it cost . He taught me to write, and my first sale was to him . I still can remember that nobody understood the story but him, even after it was printed . Now it's in a college-level S-F course manual put out by Ginn and Company . There's only about 300 words to the story . After the printing of the story, Ginn and Company prints an impromptu discussion I had with a high school class about the story . All the kids understand the story . It's about how a dog sees garbagemen coming to steal the precious food that the family stores up every day until the heavily constructed repository is full and then these Roogs come and steal the food just when it's ripe and perfect . The dog tries to warn the family, but it's always early in the morning and his barking just annoys them . The story ends when the family decides they have to get rid of the dog, due to his barking, at which point one of the Roogs or garbagemen says to the dog ,
I never could understand why no one but Tony Boucher could understand the story (I sent it to him in 1951). I guess in those days my view of garbagemen was not shared universally, and now in 1971 when the high school class discussed it with me, I guess it is.
a lady editor pointed out to me in 1952 . I had trouble answering that . Something comes and eats up people who are sleeping in tranquility . Like Tony . Something got him . I think the dog, who cried ,
I hadn't realized Pinky was Tony Boucher, served up by the universe again, until I had this dream about Tony the Tiger—the cereal box character who offers you cocoa puffs . In my dream I stood at one end of a light-struck glade, and at the other a great tiger came out slowly, with delight, and I knew we were together again, Tony the Tiger and me . My joy was unbounded . When I woke up I tried to think who I knew named Tony . I had other strange experiences after Pinky died . I dreamed about a Mrs. Donlevy who was incredibly tall—I could see only her feet and ankles—and she was serving me a plate of milk on the back porch and there was a vacant lot where I could roam at will, forever . It was the Elysian Vacant Lot, which the Greeks believed in, but just my size . Also, the day Pinky died, at the vet's, that evening as I stood in the bathroom I felt my wife put her hand on my shoulder, firmly, to console me . Turning, I saw no one . I also dreamed this dream: I had the album notes for Don Pasquale
Four nights before Pinky died, before we knew he had cancer—I started to say, before he had been diagnosed as having a bruised rib—he and Tessa and I were lying in the bedroom on the bed, and I saw a uniform pale light slowly fill the room . I thought the angel of death had come for me and I began to pray in Latin :
It never occurred to me that death was coming for anyone but me, which shows my attitude . I saw us all as painted ducks, on a painted sea, and thought of the Arab 13th century poem about
Once he will miss, twice he will miss/All the world's one level plain for him on which he hunts for flowers.
58 We were as conspicuous as—well, anyhow finally I gave up praying, but I remember in particular I kept crying out ,
Mors stupebit et natura.
59 Which I thought meant that death stood stupefied, as if in surprise . (As in ,
The tyranny is gone, I think . Last year powerful spirits of the ionosphere, even perhaps from as far away as the sun's corona, were dispatched to come here to intervene . They did so . They threw it down in ruins (Nixon is now a classic ruin). Those whom they seized upon for their good work (I am one) saw for a time the universe—or anyhow whatever part caught their attention—as it is . It is a vast cube, into which time moves in the form of pattern: not spatial (it acquires space only when it enters the cube), but dynamic and bubbly; it is alive . That is the future, a bunch of patterns being fed to us as we stand around within the space-time cube . At the bottom end, the used-up time extrudes, but is still real, still there . The cube in terms of the temporal extension is about four thousand years; its spatial extension is whatever is needed to play out the patterns on, for the benefit of living creatures . The purpose of it all—this feeding energy in, patterns in, at one end of the cube within which we stand yoked together, trapped within the cube like so many parts mounted on a circuit board—this energy presents signals which we experience as movement and events taking place within the cube . We respond, according to instructions fired at us from around us on all the six sides of our real world . The signals or events are incorporated into each of us as learning—learning by experience—and they permanently modify our brain tissue, leaving permanent although minute trace-changes in us . This way we store this information combining it and altering it, and we are prepared to transmit it again when instructed, to whoever we're instructed to transmit it to . Each of us is a vast storage drum of taped information which we purposefully modify, each of us differently . Thus, Beethoven produced symphonies which no one else could; the same with Schubert . But the symphonies did not really lie within either of them (Aristotle's entelechy idea), but rather were fed to each of them in discrete (broken constituent) form, in raw bits lacking connectives . What each of those Stations did was to link his selection of bits into gestalts (his idiosyncratic symphonies). He structured them as no other Station could . However, the raw bits were fed to him; in that regard he was receptive or passive (
a spirit might be saying, taking some extra choice raw bits and then so feeding them into that one out of billions of possible stations.
You think I'm kidding . I hope I'm kidding.
Using this model you can readily see that our instinctive drive to survive against all odds serves purposes not our own: it is to keep us rolling de barrel along and along and along and along . The universe keeps jabbing us with tropisms over which we have no control, the sum of which is: you need to do this; you must; you like to; you have nothing else to do . The last in that sequence is the truest . What the hell else is there to do, since that is all there is here, and that is why we are here? The
