fills it at the stream—the nearly dried up creek at which the man is fishing . Hence now: pitcher/pot, water, the fish as Christian fish sign—and even, perhaps, the Fisher King, and the double helix design on the pitcher: the DNA molecule: phylogenic knowledge—linked to the Christians via the Christian fish sign by the juxtaposition of the woman (with the pitcher of water) and the man fishing . But this is not all, when Fat returns from his travels the first time he has the 8 x 10 glossy of the Krater , 2,300 years old; the double helix DNA appears as design but it is pre-Christian and has to do with Hermes and signifies wisdom; it emanates from Asklepios and signifies, as the caduceus, a sacred person (who in VALIS—that is Asklepios—is identified with Elijah and Jesus as the immortal one). And here is where poros krater
( [>] ). Thus the Age of Aquarius breaks into the Piscean age of the Palm Tree Garden, which is dry, even arid, and hot . A new age (epoch) with new and different laws now inbreaks, a different world, and it is the 5-D world (that I experienced in 3-74) replacing the 4-D world . And with this new epoch comes the sharing instead of the acquiring competitively, as Benjamin Creme points out; and this precisely is the basis of my entire ethics—in absolute diametric contradistinction to Pisces . Philo's (philanthropia) becomes expressed as voluntary sharing of all that one has; when one does not give (as in giving alms) as an end in itself (viz: aid to the needy), the sharing is the end . (The difference is subtle but crucial .) There is a communal sense (Gemeinschaft); the distinction between you and others vanishes . (As when I not only had Mary's teeth fixed, but found myself thinking ,
[ 54: J-11] Thinking about Hair—could the outbreak of the counterculture in the 60s have been the intrusion of the Age of Aquarius into the older Age of Pisces for the first time? In which case the Sibyl speaking regarding Nixon, the conspirators, their overthrow (brought to justice
Then we are not literally apostolic (i.e., early, authentic) Christians; we are analogous to the early Christians in their revolutionary relationship to the previous age . [...] I did not understand this until Benjamin Crème explained it on Sunday night . All this time—from 2-74 on—I have confused literal apostolic Christians with the transtemporal archetype that pertains equally to the literal early Christians of the time of Acts and their equal counterparts c. 1960–1975, hence the compatibility of Acts A.D. 70 and California, USA 1974 . The early Christians
[ 54: J-14] But what is pointed to here is that we will not find
[ 54: K-1] There is no doubt that the broad social program foreseen and espoused by Creme is the same as mine . That is settled . Now, several claims are made . (1) The Fifth Buddha is the Second Advent . (2) He is legally
; one can infer that he was not born there for it is said
so he merely resides there . He has been on
speaks weekly (on weekends) to hundreds of followers . He was born July 19 , 1977 . (3) This spring—within a few months—he will declare himself as the Christ (
), at which point he will be a
and will appear on
( 4) He will speak; the Dutch will hear him in Dutch; the French in French, the English in English, etc . The voice will occur directly in the person's mind by telepathy; it is explicit: by telepathy . This will provide that he is the Christ . He is omniscient and omnipresent; he will
Curious: he is omnipresent yet incarnate; I have wrestled with this problem . The answer would seem to be the pan-Indian avatar concept . The views, doctrines, and aspirations that he expresses
So we eject ETIs, mutants, Russians, AMORC,63 time travelers, and wind up with theosophy, which yields up the notion of the World Teacher and the great adepts/masters in the Himalayas, the Madam Blavatsky business64; this has several advantages: (1) it would explain my 2-3-74 experiences as super-normal mental (i.e., telepathic) contact with some kind of enlightened or super-evolved spiritual master ,
Outside of some explanation like this, Tears cannot be explained . (Why not? Okay; God may be communicating in cypher in popular novels—that is, the source of the cypher may be God, but there is still the issue of the to whom.
But of quintessential importance is that my comprehension of philanthropia is extricated from the law—i.e., the distant past—and placed fully in the new age that is just now dawning; that is, I extract it as essence—spirit—of the law and project it—not just into the NT, which is the Kerygma of Jesus, but forward into the new age, what Creme calls sharing . And responding to the expression of need by others . (This presumes extant inequality: those who possess; those who do not; and the obligation on the former by the latter .) This is not (agape); this has to do with social justice as if the anima of the Torah leapfrogged past Christian to contemporary social justice, which is exactly how I see it! has nothing to do with it; it is the anima of the Torah expressed as deed, as act of sharing (not giving but sharing: dividing equitably, without reference to who aggrandized the possessions); need is everything, to tally overruling possession (ownership). Thus the suicidal otherworldly element of Christianity is bypassed in favor of the humane anima of the Torah (humanity). It is rational, not affective . The needy one is entitled to this reapportionment based on need itself; there is a direct link to Aries and Judaism . In connection with modern existentialism, the deed is emphasized, not the motive: what is done, not what is felt . The self abnegation of Christianity is revealed as world negating and in a sense romantic and impractical and in fact irrational! Reason as social justice—fairness—replaces sacrifice as an end in itself (giving up one's life for another); the goal is not that the other lives instead, but that both survive equally . This appeals to reason, whereas Christianity is antirational (as a response to both Judaism and Stoicism). As in my Galina dream, the fish gives its life—it suffers and voluntarily sacrifices itself—but in the new age, all live equally . Fairness and equitability replace self-sacrifice.
[ 54: K-27] [...] Angel Archer, as I recently realized, is the AI Voice directly for the first time expressing itself openly, which is why I can write a novel from the standpoint
[ 54: K-32] It is evident that (1) what B Creme says explains everything; and (2) without his help I would have remained stuck, unable to decide who the Savior is and who speaks to me and what 2-3-74 was all about . All three are the Maitreya Buddha and yet it is Christ and all the rest of them, as I theorized in VALIS . Thus in a real sense the question who? is meaningless—but in another sense it is not . The answer is of course there in VALIS: there is one immortal man
[ 54: L-1] 5:20 A.M. moksa: the real burning up of my Karma in 3-74 was not (just or mainly) the relaxation of causality (astral determinism in which effect preceded cause), but vis-à-vis the Xerox missive: there the central corpus or thrust of my total Karma—regarded as a unitary whole driving me to distraction, illness and death (and perhaps prison) —was short-circuited: this is Karma to an ultimate degree—absolute Karma—and the absolute canceling of it, as expressed by the messenger
[ 54: L-3] The maze can never be solved in terms of horizontal vertical space (involving conversion of time into space). * This is ostensibly Celtic, but below that, as it were, lies pan-Indian thought about karma and maya and most of all compassion—expressed in Parsifal as
; the significance of Mitleid in the statement in Parsifal is now explained to me: compassion's highest power is the only power capable of solving the maze, and the recognition of
[ 54: L-5] Dio . The
in Parsifal refers to (1) the maze; and (2) is a solution to the maze . It all comes together in Parsifal, which secretly deals with bodhisattva: Mitleid, hence the Buddha . And karma and Maya . What was precisely not solved in VALIS (
And my point is: this was to be the theme of Owl in which he is trapped in the maze and only escapes, actually, rather than seemingly, when he decides voluntarily to return (to resubject himself to the power of the maze) for the sake of these others, still in it . That is, you can never leave alone; to leave you must elect to take the others out; thus Christ said ,
I cannot retrieve the reasoning that led me to my moksa that not only is the AI voice myself out of the maze but is me necessarily; it has to do with (1) voluntarily returning to the maze in order to be—get—outside the maze; that is, the Chinese finger trap quality of the maze is overcome . And (2) this is how a self-causing (acausal) escape from a self-winding situation not only can occur but must occur; you must be able to do this—advise yourself in the maze from outside the maze—or a fortiori you will never get out . Hence anamnesis . Hence the AI voice . Hence salvador salvandus . Hence I become progressively more and more Angel Archer (the bright
[ 54: M-8] I just now looked over DI . As I recently realized about VALIS, the dialectic that is the inner life of God—as revealed to Boehme and explicated later by Schelling—and commented on by, e.g., Tillich—is presented as the very basis of the book . In VALIS it is expressed dramatically as world-order in which the irrational confronts the bright or rational, designated (properly) logos . In DI this same dialectic reappears and this time is stated to be the two sides of God (rather than world order; that is, in DI it is now correctly seen to be within God himself!): It is now (in DI) between Emmanuel who is the terrible, destroying solar heat
[ 54: M-12] The Tagore vision, it being published, will release the marathon runners—start them out with the Godspell, the good news—because it— in contrast to the VALIS trilogy—contains the social justice part which has to do with the
[ 54: M-24] Galactic Pot-Healer shows the very real possibility of encroaching madness . The archetypes are out of control . Water—the ocean itself —which is to say the unconscious, is hostile and rises to engulf . The book is desperate and frightened, and coming apart, dreamlike, cut off more and more from reality . Flight, disorganization: the way has almost run out . Those elements dealt with in earlier novels—ominous elements —now escape my control and take over . What Brunner said ,
The issue is properly stated in VALIS, which shows not only a return of control but is an account of victory—in the form of rationality, of logos itself—over madness; I am not only rational, I also depict as open autobiography, this battle in me and this victory . Ursula is both right and wrong.
VALIS is, then, the return from madness or near-madness, an account of a prior inner struggle and not a symptom of that struggle still going on . By the time I wrote VALIS the battle had been successfully won; and the proof of this is DI and, most of all, BTA in which Angel Archer is (as I've already realized) the rational principle in me, which is logos, that is to say, Christ itself speaking; the victory by the bright
[ 54: M-34] Here, perhaps, is the distinction between idios kosmos koinos kosmos . The human mind cannot generate out of itself the infinite, in which case finitum capax infiniti
[ 54: M-35] I am saying, then, several things: first, that the finite creature's hunger for the infinite is such that it will drive itself mad in its search; second, I am saying that this is the cause of my psychosis that began to take over and lasted until 2-74; that (third) I was psychotic until 2-74, as I suspected, but now I see why; and last, that the inbreaking of the infinite sobers the landscape
[ 54: M-37] This is really what VALIS is all about, thematically . Then I am saying that the condition normal to us generates a sort of normal madness that I have already and for some time studied: it has to do with a recirculating closed loop in which the mind simply monitors its own thoughts forever and so only knows itself, never really knowing the truly other . Then infinite truly other signify one and the same thing; the reason I could not imagine infinite deity is the reason I could not imagine the math-color axis in place of our math-music axis . All this, then, is ultimate epistemology, no more, no less . The meta-abstraction amounts to an authentic comprehension about something other than myself, and it may represent, for me, the first time what I have always called world
In any case the conception of Glimmung and the meta-abstraction are antitheses . They are mutually exclusive . The former is nothing more than that which I as finite thing can suppose: the latter is bona fide knowledge of that which is truly other . In becoming psychotic I simply showed the prisonlike nature of self-generated knowledge and what it is like for the inquisitive mind to discover that all it knows is itself over and over again . The realization that it is de facto in hell (cf . my supra theory that hell and the atomization of the lowest ring spatiotemporal world are one and the same; conversely, the part-whole compatibility
So here we have my psychosis defined as
by the fact that—and its awareness of the fact that (the second point is necessary!) —it knows only itself and seemingly is condemned to know only itself forever, itself and nothing more . This is epistemological hell . Knowledge other than self-knowledge is de facto impossible . Here we see the culmination of years of epistemological doubts—doubts about the nature of—even the reality of—world; suddenly a radical shift occurs: it is not world that is dubitable and tenuous but knowledge of world; the Cartesian premise has set in, and, upon doing so, the mind realizes that it is doomed never to know world . This, then, may be what the BIP symbolizes: the prison of the utter atomization of the spatiotemporal world . At this point the mind despairs and psychosis sets in as the mind frantically seeks to formulate in the dark
[ 54: N-18] Glancing briefly over the Tractates
( 5) When I say ,
what I am referring to is specifically and clearly and very movingly the salvador salvandus . Which again tells me that this is indeed Gnosticism . So I am a spark of the Godhead that got captured by the Dark Kingdom; as I say in the Tractates
[ 54: N-20] I am probably too far into Gnosticism to turn back: the single term mystagogue points indubitably to it, and, then, to salvador salvandus . Which in turn fits in with my bootstrap view that is a revolutionary reappraisal of what cause and effect really signify, that being saved remembering (your true identity and true situation and true history) —this at first seems to be Plato's anamnesis but is really Gnostic in the widest sense, knowledge regarded as ontologically primary both in terms of the fallen individual and, more, in terms of cosmic repair . And here, indeed, is the essence of Gnosticism, as H. Jonas says: not that the gnosis saves but, rather, the ontological value and meaning of it, that it is absolutely primary as the real thing, second to nothing . Thus in the final analysis Gnosticism assigns the utmost priority to knowing and thus regards epistemology as equal to the divine; for the Gnostic, epistemological inquiry is in itself—as a search—truly divine, and is the highest basis of and for spiritual life—and this is my view of epistemology a fortiori . To me, nothing is more important . * Thus for me Gnosticism is the inexo rable goal because the premise of Gnosticism is the premise on which my mental life is grounded; so for me to say that
is in fact for me to utter a tautology, but it is a meaningful one; it is tautological only in the sense that (upon close inspection) it turns out to be an analytical proposition and not a synthetic one . So for me spiritual, mental life, Gnosticism, epistemology, rationality (in contrast to the irrational) and knowing are all one . And the search is as worthy as the goal; the search is the dynamic life of the mind . It amounts to a procession of mounting growth stages in personal evolution and hence is essential to negentropy, to life itself . To know is to be: not
: there is a difference: learning involves the absorption of negative entropy into oneself from the environment (negentropy expressed as information). And this, maybe, is the heart of the matter.
[ 55: O-8] 66 I just now glanced over the tractate . In a sense the novel VALIS was a means to get the tractate published—originally I supposed only a private and tiny printing, e.g., by Roy Squires, but because of VALIS it—the tractate—is in mass circulation in the U.S., the U.K., France and possibly Germany . I did it . VALIS is true; Gnosticism is true; what the AI voice says is true; thus I am compelled to believe absolutely and for the first time that, all else proving to be true, the soteriological prophecies must be true, also; so the 5th savior is here :
( 2) The messenger
( 3) The Covenant House
( 4) The pulley
( 6) The
3-74 (Valis) light (
[ 57: Q-24] The total Kosmos is somehow in
Interface half in the part (person), half in the whole (world), and thus modulates each to the other: advocate for the person in terms of what he does (acting toward the whole) and how he experiences world (the whole acting on him). In this case the part is not directly engaged with the whole but indirectly, and this is what I felt to be the case when Jeannie was on the phone . This fits Malebranche's model . It is related (as a model) to Cartesian epistemology having to do with world experienced as representation . This would seem to imply that what Kant calls
