but instead I said ,
I was not applying logic, deductive logic (e.g., anything
Epistemologically, what I really know is all negatives: that what we see is not real, and that we cannot by our own efforts outwit the projection machinery . It can serve up one thing after another, ever more cunning and psychomorphic (
). VALIS is a hodgepodge of superstition and sensational nonsense—and yet
Where I started to wise up vis-à-vis 2-3-74 in terms of my exegesis was when I remembered that in the Bardo Thödol trip your own prior thought-formations come back to you as world—which I wrote about in Frozen Journey
Valis: Set-ground . Camouflage . Here in the universe . Macrosoma blended into the universe in countless ways, here and there: a glint here, a word on a page, plural objects and their causal processes a ripple of wind in the weeds in the alley . Valis is not the universe but blended into it, as is Ubik.
[ 88:57] God was aware of me; he ratified my einai by his love; he created it . He caused me to be; that is it: (his) agape causes to be; this is how you cause to be: by agape and agape alone . Love is a wish that the other, and not-you, exist; love guarantees the existence of what is not under your will—free of your will; this is true creation . He desires that something other than him exist and be itself . We truly are not him . Agape and creating are one and the same . It is not a desire for union; it is a desire to see something be on its own, its own self; each separate self is a universe! A world! God adores you because he adores beauty . Something that exists on its own is beautiful; this is the ultimate beauty, that it be free.
Where, amid the shadowy green, the little ones of the forest come unseen.
[ 88:59] I was reading over the pages on love that I wrote last night; they remind me of Paul . From them I deduce that I did in fact experience the agapē of God: his love that created us as independent creatures—this love deliberately curtailed so that we could go forth with essence, with true autonomous being; love created us . But we are vaguely unhappy—this is all such ecstatic writing, so mysterious . Our suffering increases his love because he knows that we value nonexistence more than this existence because this existence requires us to be independent hence cut off from him; we yearn to retrace our steps and this increases his love and joy, and in us love occurs, love like that that he has; it now occurs in us as well, we whom love gave birth to . Compared with this love, world is nothing, a cinder, dust; for us to feel it in us, and finally if we feel it in us, we feel his love for us once more, the love that created us in the first place . Our own love is an echo of the power, the love, that caused us to be in the first place . I understand from all this that compared with this love—love by him in the first place, then loved by us, then loved by him again, that original love that created us re-experienced—there is nothing, nothing at all . We only find him again when we begin to feel love in us, echoes of the love he felt . He responds, then, with his own love; we did not know, when we suffered, why we suffered . But it gave him joy, because he saw it as a sign of love growing in us echoing his love . This is source for us and it is goal—unremembered as source and unknown as goal . But still felt—felt as suffering . I can't explain it . It is too mysterious; but love is the origin and love is the goal . There is nothing that compares with it; it is everything.
I wrote . I don't know now what that means . Yet I sense that it is correct . God withdraws so as to allow us independent existence, this is his gift and sacrifice, to let us go . And then a time comes when we want to return and abandon independent existence: now we have penetrated the mystery of existence: that non-being with him is preferable to being (Sein) away from him . The great gift of einai is given back voluntarily, renounced
that I might live in him invisible and dim.
It is Christ and he literally is becoming the physical world—by literal transubstantiation, as logos becomes flesh . That's it :
Suddenly I see it all :
This is it . Nothing else ever made me happy because nothing else ever logically followed Act III of Parsifal, along any axis—aesthetically, logically, epistemologically, spiritually, topically, etc . I wanted more . There is no more, except in knowing Christ, which means: to have him born in you—hence the nativity; it's all modeled on the
part of Act III . I knew what I wanted at 15 years old: the next step after
Compassion (Mitleid) is a blend of sorrow and love . Thus it is the nexus between sorrow and joy—joy entering because love leads to God . So I now know what Mitleids Hichteit Macht
Without the dream my sorrow (at the loss of Nancy) would have stayed simply sorrow; and the dream was based on the rat experience, which roused vast compassion in me and was the root moksa/religious experience! And it, in turn, was based on the beetle incident when I was in the 4th grade! And in the '60s the Galapagos turtle compassion . At which point the AI voice spoke to me! So my whole development was guided along over the decades since childhood . The first episode was my throwing the cat down the stairs—and feeling sorrow for it.
[ 88:79] That 2-3-74 and 11-17-80 were genuine I cannot now doubt, having perceived this life history (of progressive moksa) of stages of loss of striving and self (the two are the same). Both Christianity and Buddhism—Brahmanism leads to the same goal, because both are based on compassion . (For India this means the loss of self; for the Christian it means experiencing agape hence God, since agape is his nature .) Hence I can now link Christianity with pan-Indian thought through the
What does that signify? Take as an example the coffee filter, which is a 2-dimensional object; when folded, it becomes 3-dimensional . To be folded there must be a void into which it is folded . Is the message of the dream that there exists non-existent reality (non-is) into which the three-dimensional object must be folded—this non-is void must be for three dimensions to become 4, thus making time available
Then the intellectual leap I am not making, through fear, is to add the dimension (or realm) of not-is, and describe its characteristics (
Such early Christian mystics as Erigena described God as
This precisely is the mystery: a conceptual framework is built; this is Christianity . (I believe this; I believe that . These are doctrines . They are ideas in the mind . Whose mind? My mind . They are a system of notions entertained by me, that Christ lived, that he died, that he rose from the dead, that he ascended to heaven, that he was—etc .) What is the relationship between these doctrines and reality? Are they derived from reality? They are not derived from experience . They are held on faith (pistis). What does faith
The apostolic age Christians declared in their writing that their secret was that they had overcome physical death . How had they done this? A: once what they had called the Holy Spirit had descended on them, each of them could travel up the gene pool line, through the generations, into the past (anamnesis) or future, like a snake crawling up a garden hose with thousands of holes punched in the hose, to emerge anywhere (i.e., at any time and place) the person wanted . Thus Thomas, hose in Rome c. A.D. 70, emerged in Fullerton , 1974 . The clue is the Watson & Crick model of the DNA molecule, which the early Christians pretended was a fish symbol . But what was that which they called the Holy Spirit
How could the early Christians have known about Crick and Watson's double helix? Answer: (1) through the Holy Spirit ,
Right brain hemisphere: music, not words . In close encounters of the third kind: musical tones . Humpback whale songs . Brian Eno's random (self generated) music . Disinhibiting signals? If this is so—zebra is here . Zebra, a Vast Active Living Intelligence System stretches between star systems; it mimics our reality, and modulates (manipulates) it, without us seeing it . Corpus Christi? Thomas was Zebra inside me . The Holy Spirit is Christ inside you.
The time has come.
i.e., I shall be ubiquitous, everywhere at once . Ubik . Logos . The micro-template for output terminal of the total entity . Puzzle: we are inside it, and it is inside us . The macro within the micro! Our intellect cannot comprehend this; it violates our physics, our logic . How can the macro be smaller than the micro?
etc . We are asleep, but waking up.
Like I say, I am in a world where other people still say ,
and I say ,
My meta-abstracting caused meta-perception at once—well, very soon the 3rd eye
Repeat: there is no theory, account or explanation of this in antiquity; this is a new, evolutionary leap in (1) meta-cognition, followed by (2) meta-perception of world . VALIS, alas, is told from a two-eyed standpoint (about a three-eyed reality).
Goddam it, it is the eye of the God denied us . It opened for me, as it did for the Buddha, but I give (at least as of today) an adequate—i.e., contemporary—explanation . It is the Dibba Cakkhu experience; it did happen to Gautama . This is waking up! Enlightenment . Transtemporal equals trans (4th) spatial . I should not have written religious and occult stuff into VALIS; that's 2-eyed thinking about a 3-eyed experience . However, Plato did help critically with his anamnesis theory . Because my 3rd eye
Finally: this untangling after 7 years of work goes directly back to the grueling labors circa 10-80 when I really bore down . The Logos is pointed to—but new language will have to be developed . Maybe we can work it out in cooperation with the Logos ,
I understand! The Logos ,
And to think it never occurred to me all these years that when I looked at the contents of Tears and saw the text at several spatial levels—each successive one according to how old it was—I was seeing time as space, which means that I had converted time into space according to the quote from Parsifal ,
Thus (if one wanted to) one could set up a cypher system by which a message could be read off at a glance, as set to ground (in other words in terms of spatial depth along this fourth spatial axis; but whether it is cypher or just the normal way the plasmate operates I have no idea; it may not be cypher at all but just its MO). The message lodges in a context that is not the same age as it; in other words set and ground lie at different depths along the fourth spatial axis . Apparently the percipient does not need to know the age of the different texts in order to see them lying at different depths; they will lie at their appropriate depths according to their intrinsic age, not according to the percipient's knowledge; this is the case because they actually are at these different depths, when time (age) is converted into space . If this is so, it is quite extraordinary, perhaps the most so of anything I've come across in this experience and exegesis of the experience . For example, a percipient who is able to see time as space (the fourth spatial axis) will see the word ASHER on the Linda Ronstadt albums as lying very deep, since it is an ancient Hebrew word . So a message can be put together involving it as a linking device . For example, when I looked at that page in Tears I saw the word FELIX at a different depth from the words surrounding it, and this was before I knew that it is a Latin word as well as a name . I did not estimate the depth by the age; I estimated the age by the depth, by the various different depths . In my opinion someone or something is using this mechanism as a message-carrier . What I have been calling
I believe I counted four different depths in the total text of Tears . A single morpheme will do it . ASHER will be perfect since it is of enormous an tiquity/depth . And it's on every Ronstadt album starting with
➋ Here he, the man, fuses back together as one intact person; the wound has healed . He now recognizes himself as himself . The saving knowledge (gnosis) takes the form of man's ability to identify a picture of himself as himself (Mein eigenes Gesicht) (or: Mein eigenes Gestalt
[ 89:103] It is very, very important to realize that in Tears two distinct selves in me were writing two parallel but unconnected narratives: (1) the overt, explicated political one about forced labor camps and a U.S. ruled by five police marshals, the pols and nats; and (2) a latent religious narrative about Christ and Rome and St. Paul—and agape . Now, in 2-3-74, these two selves as (so to speak) thesis and antithesis ignited into one single ultra synthesis in which the apparently conflicting elements that divided them off from each other were fused in a totally new, vast vision of history, society, God, freedom, tyranny that constituted a revelation to each self.
This does not in any way involve an about-face in my political stance (i.e., that which I inherited from Berkeley). It simply fuses it with my metaphysical, religious, epistemological, philosophical views—note epistemological
Progress is taking place . Deposing Nixon was not enough; we melted away; it was
[ 89:139] I just reread Flow My Tears . The mystery deepens . Obviously it is The Bacchae retold . Felix Buckman is King Pentheus, the
Jason Taverner is the stranger, the priest of Dionysus, who is imprisoned by Pentheus, and who bursts the prison and causes Pentheus to become insane and dress up in women's garb (alluded to by the character of Alys who King Felix who was shown to me to be Christ by the dream I had in which I was shown the book page on which the name Jesus split apart into Zeus-Zagreus . Beyond doubt King Felix is a cypher and refers to the God who will—and does—pull down the King of Tears, the police tyranny; Dionysus does this (as that U.K. article described). So I am saying that King Felix refers primarily to Dionysus, and it was Dionysus who overthrew Nixon . My enthusiasmos in 2-3-74 was by Dionysus; I was intoxicated; it was Dionysus' stoned magic that permitted me to see what I saw in 3-74 . Greek—hence I heard Thomas thinking in Greek; hence the Sibyl and Cyclops . By the cypher Dionysus identified himself and his presence, but you had to be mad
The joyous (happy—Felix) Christians blowing up the BIP and running away—this is Dionysus' perception of the grim King of Tears, his rule, and the bursting of his prison by Dionysus . To Dionysus, this is the basic perception of the dialectic of history: Dionysus, the running, joyous
[ 89:186] Surely someone in the world who knows about the Holy Spirit will recognize that this is what VALIS is about (but the humble author did not). Look at their stance at the end; it is that of the Eleven at the time of Acts —in fact VALIS is a retelling of the story of the spirit of the risen Lord returning to the grieving disciples; Horselover Fat's grief is over the death of a friend—he seeks this dead, lost friend in and as the Savior; to this lowly grieving man, a paradigm of the Eleven after the crucifixion, there suddenly returns the spirit, turning grief and loss into joy and recovery . The Rhipidon Society is the Eleven . The death of Gloria is the death of Jesus . No one has noticed this, including me . The spirit inspires Fat with faith so that he looks forward to the Parousia not backward to the crucifixion . Without intending it, in VALIS I retold Acts . So for a second time, Acts
[ 89:219] I dreamed that I wrote down that what we call world is a program in a meta-computer; the program is arranged conceptually and not in time, space, or by causation; we call this meta-computer that our world is in
[ 59:50] Late at night, stoned and drunk, glancing at VALIS: it is highly experimental: absolutely unofficial, anti-official junk art (i.e., protest art); made of the garbage of the vernacular, informal in structure, incorrect in viewpoint: it speaks for and in the language of, the fashion of, a segment of society normally so disenfranchised that even Binky Brown doesn't act as its voice—a certain kind of troubled young isolate asking schizophrenic questions like ,
[ 60: A-1 ]
Zagreus to Zadok to Jesus . The translator who is an atheist believes that
