88 and not in larger more spectacular forms . Also, the ancient Hebrew priests declaring that the voice of God is like the cooing of doves . By the same token therefore I might be correct in supposing that the faint, distant, mild, composed voice I have heard is that of God Himself and not that of a demiurge, it not being necessary for Him to employ such just to scale Himself down . Some of the foolishness of doctrines diminishing the Trinity can be exposed by understanding this; obviously each Person or Member can be equal to God, although in a very real sense less (Christ was equal to God but God was greater than He; ordinary language doesn't apply here). What is meaningful is to understand that all of God is reconstructible from a single bit
[ 5:157] I just discovered that for 15 months I've labored in error as to who wrote Acts . I had the idea it was Paul, undoubtedly because it deals with Paul . However, it was written by Luke, who also may have written Romans . I am sitting here slowly perceiving the importance of this . First off, the stunning manifestation of theological material in Tears is virtually all (all except for the dream) from Acts . But the main point is that Luke was
as Paul calls him, and a highly literate Greek writer . Also, in one recent dream, my attention was called to a large section of the Bible which when I looked up the page numbers was Luke's Gospel from the Sermon on the Mount of Christ at the Mount of Transfiguration . Also, my vision of the man as saint or angel informing me was of a Greek: he wore a toga and greaves . He carried a huge clasped book, which he held with both arms, affectionately . This wasn't Paul . A Greek physician and evangelist; one of the gospelists . The EB says that Luke was a darn good theologian and that he was into Christian prophecy . He was no mere chronicler of events . I've been looking over Acts . It certainly is fluent . And he was a close friend of Paul; this fits my early dream in which my friend Paul
If only I'd said plaintively to Father Rasch :
I thank you.
For To Scare the Dead: let it turn out to be St. Luke who shamanistically possessed him (a bridge thus established between 70 A.D. and our present), and the protag eventually discovers, through this assimilated inner contact that St. Luke (and probably also the others of the original cadre of Christians, the inner circle of Christ's) is what we call (are you ready?) a non-terrestrial, of magnificent power and authority and wisdom . I think plotwise the protag eventually learns/decides that originally such men as St. Luke were ordinary humans ,
etc., but became this—through such possession of them by the Holy Spirit, which is to say their Master, Christ (who was not an ordinary human being). And the purpose of this elevation comes through now, since our planet has had it (ecology wise, due to our using up and destroying and polluting); this is a system to get some of us, as many as possible translated out of here and hence saved; this is the true meaning of being saved ,
I might add that what gives the non-terrestriality of Luke away to the protag are, e.g., the dreams in which the protag experiences himself—and man in general—as an animal among other animals, a sort of anthropological-biologist-naturalist viewpoint derived from Luke-within-him . He obtains Luke's standpoint, and it is off earth . The other-end-of-the-telescope view . What St. Luke has, as vibes ,
Ch . must decide where he stands: the hallucinations
Of most value would be to take his novel and to approach my experience strictly in the kind of S-F terms he uses (where religious symbolism and experience are subsumed by modern S-F non-terrestrial
I'm not sure these S-F concepts mean much . In terms of S-F yield, this is about it as far as what my 3-74 experience gives . This is why I reject an S-F type of explanation; a theological one yields so much more . The above simply do not explain . They are paltry, and no more than the convention of the moment . What is needed is a harmonization of theology and S-F without a reduction of the former to the latter, as Clarke does . It looks (what he does) like an improvement, but it is not . The devil really
From fatigue I've failed to put down a lot . But the descending Moth exhibits in model form how an entity or universe outside time enters one confined by linear time . It is throughout matter—i.e., throughout in the lesser, linear universe, as if the whole landscape is light-spattered . It took me over 12 hours to realize that the descending Moth, like a hollow Japanese paper lantern, was actually a ship landing, a huge one . This was the ultimate vision for me, this great light-giving ship identified in the dream only as the Moth, which I guess is its individual name . Thus I am enabled to conceive what up to this point I couldn't conceive, the way the Kingdom enters our world, the relationship it has to our world constantly, etc . (Those two are the same: how it enters and its constant relationship .) (It is a constant entering, as the EB macro says, but I couldn't conceive this . Now I can .) The maximum linear-time entry point has already been fixed, and entry has begun (
The light was not like sunlight . It was that which I saw light up the bedroom that Sunday night before Pinky died; it was the raising, I think, that night of the veil of limitation (on me). This was frightening to me, because I rightly associated it with approaching death . I guess this means that when/as we die, we begin to see what formerly was concealed to us, or from us, and the shock is great, since we have, all our lives, been trading (doing business) with evil . The first things seen are negative, and what is worse, we've been part of this negative reality, which, as Tagomi realized, is an actual evil, not merely a view-point evil . It is basically self-awareness: self as part of this and now disclosed (to a higher eye). It is the ultimate fulfillment of paranoiac vision...my evil inside is seen! This is universally experienced as the Day of Wrath, and rightly so.
But what is even more amazing was the following morning when I was unnaturally up and about at 7:00 A.M., and felt the spirit (of 3-74) back in me again . This time I asked its name . It said it represented what it called
Idea for To Scare the Dead . Dreams, but not about the past as are the dreams in Peter Proud91; rather, they are like the dreams about the approaching Spaniards by the Aztecs—visions of the future . Like the Moth dream, which is a dream about the arrival of a ship, and S-F in style . (This was used in Clans somewhat, when Ledebur had visions about the ship arriving .) Pre-cog dreams . The cities he dreams himself in are futuristic—from the next century! Also—my MBS92 script, later made into a minor short story, where the guy has a phobia from an event in the future—why can't I expand on this story idea, here? Make a novel use of it? Man who remembers the future rather than the past—the psychiatrist setting, even . Autobiographical...even unto my experience which caused me to summon Mr. Kelly: experiencing disinhibiting stimuli before they arrived (in normal sequence and interval). Beforehand, as mere word and/or light signals to us . Now, having read the EB macro article on time, I know that what I saw were events up the manifold ahead before they had entered linear time; before they had
I saw them in less than time reality but still in sequence, like the next film reel still in the can, not yet projected . Only as the future enters the present does it get projected into (obviously) this space-time continuum which we experience . Thus of course I saw it reduced
[ 5:182] We seem to be confined within a metal prison, but something vital has secretly penetrated the enclosing ring around us and fires assistance and advice to us in the form of video and audio signals . Neither the prison ring is visible to us nor the signal system which fires nor the entity which has penetrated through us . The signals emerge as if from cores drilled through the metal; they're in color . Thus, our prison was breached a long time ago . Help is here, but we still remain here within the prison; we aren't yet free . I take it that the camouflaged invisibility of the signals is to keep the creator of the prison from knowing that help is here for us . The drilled out tubes
March 1974: I reached reunion with the Father . Today 5-31-75 I had a dream in which I was a child again back in the '30s; at an old-fashioned table I sat with other people, and a man gave me a bowl of cereal . I saw that He was the Savior, and I began to cry with ecstatic joy . When I woke up I took a couple hours and managed to reconstruct the meaning of this dream . When I was very small, Christ fed me His Real Presence in the typical host-form: cereal (i.e., bread). I took him into me back then, and, as in the parables of the mustard seed and the leavening, He grew within me . Later on, in adult life, I felt a growing need to nourish other people, especially to feed them (in '74 we sent $400 for famine relief, for example). That which was given to me grew in me and began to yield fruit, or expression in my giving nourishment; I became by degrees the Man who fed me as a child . Viewed this way, my 3-74 experience is not something dropped on me from outside, due to the
need-situation I was in, but in fact the pay-off of a lifetime process of growth . It was the culmination of something alive and advancing inside me; in 3-74 I made it or reached it, reunion with the Father, which is to say, Christ as Mediator restored me to the Father (I didn't achieve it but was brought to it). Thus both Christ and the Father were present: Christ within me, leading me to the Father . This explains the long-term intimations I have had about being moved along toward a pay-off destiny (e.g., the dream in Canada wherein Kathy and everyone else take off their masks, finally, and Kathy says ,
). I was moving by degrees, step by step, toward the encounter with the dark-haired girl at the door with the gold fish-sign necklace . I assume that when I acted as the Savior and gave an analogous bowl of cereal to someone that I set a simi lar process in motion in him or her, too; thus, Christ delivers us, spreading Himself out through us by means of this unauthorized communion with His Real Body . Christ's role as mediator is now clear to me . A man, such as I, could never on his own find his way back to union with God . Therefore God Himself initiates the reunion, and it is God as Christ who acts to lead a man, myself in this case, along the difficult, long, narrow, confusing path to final redemption; to the right conclusion, which I experienced . A man's tragic difficulty does not begin as a situation at any given moment in his life; he is born into it: separation from God . Thus Christ begins to lead a man back from the start; intervention began in my life long ago—in fact as many of my dreams showed, in early childhood the groundwork was laid down; He was already active . 3-74 was not the difficulty but the pay-off . The last step before resurrection (finding immortality) was the death in the tomb, which I had experienced during those many sleepless nights . This is what Teilhard de Chardin said; each man as Christ; the entire species working its way along the stations of the cross, which is also what Claudia Hambro says in Confessions when she says she can feel the crown of thorns.
as she puts it to Jack Isidore (paraphrase). No man can die—atone—for your sins . You must atone yourself, following him as model; he is the guide, the mediator, not a sacrifice . Christ was not—repeat not—a sacrifice, but the first immortal man, showing us the path to immortality . How He did it, His steps, is how we must do it individually and collectively.
Jung re Meister Eckhart: God is born in the human soul—come forth from it, and the Kingdom of God is the human soul (totality of the unconscious).97 It all happens inside, Eckhart said in 1245 (circa). Libido is withdrawn (projections withdrawn) from outside objects; God ceases to be found in objects, but rather in the unconscious . This withdrawing of all projections is precisely and exactly what happened with me in 3-74 . A total reversal . I am on sure ground vis-à-vis Jung, here . God as autonomous entity of the unconscious, i.e., the soul or born out of the soul . Not capa ble of being assimilated into the conscious mind . The Divine Birth—in the soul of a given man! (I understand Eckhart to say that therefore God is dependent on me; that I give birth to him, somehow . Firebright, then? That which is mortal—man—gives birth to that which is immortal: God . First comes man; then comes God, not the other way around . This makes sense . The inferior evolves [so to speak] into the superior, mortal to immortal . Man to God . But, I add, then that God travels, reaches, back through time to before creation, and He creates or gives birth to it . God antedates man, who then antedates God . Systole, diastole . The rhythm of the universe, in time .) It is impossible for me to deny or ignore the fact that I have done what Meister Eckhart describes . Especially as explained by Jung . Jung makes it clear that to experience God inwardly, as Eckhart describes and as I did, is to experience him psychologically, which is modern and sophisticated rather than primitive . This was the new way which Eckhart outlined back in his 13th century period, the idea of god born from man's soul and in a certain real sense dependent on man (as distinguished from the Godhead). It could be said that I had been primitive before my experience, in that I projected a great deal outwardly; but withdrew all these in 3-74 in a rather short swift interval . God was not introjected by me or incorporated, but rather released . Eckhart also says that when God is born in our soul you cease to experience the (mere) world outside, but that God replaces it; I experienced this, too, finding Him in me, and equally myself in the center of Him . Christ's description (Me in you and you in Me) is thus fulfilled, which points to what is called Christ consciousness
Eckhart also speaks of this happening to a man who has misstepped (vertreten, as I recall); God, then, corrects the mis-swing of the man and brings him back to the Tao or Logos . This, then, is the macro/micro/macro schema that I drew, with God as the great macro; then myself the micro; then a fragment of the macro, of god, inside me at the very exact certain specific center (concentric rings). God is at the deepest heart or mind or level inside, and also outside everywhere; He replaces the world, resembling it as if He has transubstantiated—infused Himself—into everything, connecting all things into the One . The macro Godhead would be the Brahmin; the inner macro would be the Atman . This Divine birth, though, I believe, is quite different from the Child being born in the mind, which has to do with a new self, with psychic integration; instead of giving birth to a child, one gives birth to what resembles the Wise Old Man (its nearest archetype). The birth, not of the son, but of the Father! That this divine birth took place in me spontaneously, without my knowing about it, trying for it, having any wisdom or knowledge or practicing any tech niques—this is important, showing its unquenchable aspects . What good did it do the Romans to kill people and burn their writing, if this can occur now spontaneously, with no transcultural link of any sort...especially if, as in my case, after the event occurs, the transcultural link is generated ad hoc, a priori, noetically, etc.? God lived once; He died, or rather He slept; He slept in us . The human soul is the image of God (Eckhart); out of this image, God is reconstructed, reconstituted, printed back out: the original reborn from its image . (Crypte morphosis, etc .) The sleeping or dormant form within is God Himself, like Ptath in van Vogt's novel, The Book of Ptath . We are all sleeping avatars of God, with amnesia . The human soul: DNA coding for God!!! But man does not reconstruct God out of this DNA coding; God reconstitutes Himself Himself . (Adventitious to the human being whose soul it is .) The man cannot say ,
I've again read the EB article on Mystery Religions; those religions, especially the Orphics, stressed the anamnesis (Plato did, too, and those following him as did Pythagoras). * I ask this, as perhaps the most important question: what is the connection between being possessed by the Deity (which I aver is the same as finding the Kingdom of God), and recollection of one's former but forgotten divinity, as in Orphism and Neoplatonism? Is it a becoming for the first time, or a return? Is it new or old? Receiving or restoration? This is important because if it is a restoration then we are or anyhow were divine in nature, and lost it or forgot it, and can retrieve or remember it, get it back . Of course, I again wonder, How, if we are divine, did we come to forget that? This is, of course, the concept of the Fall, this fact, if it is a fact; we fell and forgot, having descended into nonbeing which is the same as forgetfulness . Here now I am back to my early conjectures and ponderings, and there seems no end to this, no solution . I know that I experienced anamnesis, which suggests the recollection (neoplatonist) view . As set over against the Christian view...although for us now , 2,000 years later, it would now carry the aspect of restored memory—of events 2,000 years ago; i.e., the Savior, Jesus Christ . This is what confuses me . I remember a Savior who told us it was a new experience . I remember his new message—observe the paradox.
The other night the thought came to me ,
Now I am back, in my 14-month study of this, to where I began . Someone was here, rushing powerfully through my life, our lives, our world . Something has begun; it started with that fierce zealous spirit and evidently ended with ,
which is to say ,
Unto us a child is born.
98 I have a continual feeling that I am on one specific side in this; I have chosen, or have been chosen . The last thoughts which came to me were ,
I sense myself waiting . Days pass . Nothing happens . But I am waiting and feeling restless, really waiting in the true sense . Not just passing time . This time-period has a clear quality of being a time of waiting, rather than mere emptiness, as if things had fallen through, evaporated or gone wrong . What lies ahead? I sort of sense myself as a samuri, now . Hard and stern, much less sympathetic or bathetic . My dream recently of carefully returning the bulging purse, bulging with coins, and finding that it belonged to JeBORG, BORG was close...she is close by, the figure which has been with me from the start of this: just out of sight . In addition, it is possible that my enormously strong subjective intuition—if not perception—that I personally was drawn into history by the Divine power is equally accurate . Surely this is one way by which that Power operates: seizing upon individuals here and there to perform in concert an action which will have permanent consequences generally, which is to say in the arena of history . As I keep saying, I feel retrospectively that Tears and very likely Frolix 8 were both engineered subliminally, carrying in encoded or stegenographic form material from the Logos or Godhead concerning the Logos or Godhead, as a tiny part of some general historic communications pattern; I think that shortly after Tears was released, for me the subliminal became thresholded into consciousness, and so forth into 3-74 . That is, put psychologically, I could not continue to thrust outside of awareness these extraordinary items in my books and in my life, but had to face them without averting my recognition . I was in the midst, as an active participant, of something enormous and frightening and dangerous, but very thrilling; and the direction, as well as instructions, upon which I acted, lay in the area of what people call the supernatural.
My overwhelming intuition at that time that I was, and had been, playing a small but real role in history, was probably accurate because at that time I had an absolute insight into the way everything linked up and functioned together, which is the mystic insight par excellence . I should assume, though, that my vision of my role is only meaningful in the mystical frame of reference, as contrasted to the everyday in which objects are discrete and there is no total unity . What I had is common to mystical experience, basically . But it was legitimate and real and I should hang onto it (I am). Equally real was my awareness of fighting off an absolutely evil enemy intent on zapping me once and for all—and real, too, the sense that I had lured it to destruction, assisted it in falling into its own snare . All of these perceptions were legitimate and accurate; they were disclosed to me partly to assist me in extricating myself from that danger and partly, I do believe, as a kind of reward to me, inasmuch as I had over the past years lost so much . In effect I had lost virtually all my material possessions, but I had gained my soul, if by soul you mean consciousness of one's own identity and purpose for living and reason for acting, and the ultimate disposition to which one would go . It became a sensible life in the midst of shambles, fear and chaos . A million chips, bits, fragments and broken pieces lay around on all sides in great heaps, but in the center (as if the Tao itself) I had discovered a disclosed form: my own reality, in the hands of the God who said once ,
I will never fail thee; I will never forsake thee.
99 The most beautiful passages of the Scriptures became clear to me and pertained to me and my life, during all this, which in itself is a gift beyond compare . I conversed with the Scriptures, as if I was in colloquy with a friend . Once, opening it at random for comfort, I put my finger on :
Tell him that Elijah is close by!
I therefore took the course, last night, of denying the testimony of my senses, and said: God is at work in the world but below the surface; so that evil, although empirically evident, is not actually in control as it appears to be . Further, I realized, a discernment past superficial reality shows evil to be or anyhow at one time in the past (prior to 8-74) to have been in the saddle in a much deeper way than it allowed us to see; in other words, evil masked its own power, the more to control and enslave us . So at first step, a penetration into the heart of reality showed it even more evil, or in the control of evil, than did mere superficial analysis . However, below the ring of iron around us (Rome, as the metaphor goes) I saw that God had breached, penetrated, and in fact made hollow this evil, had turned it into a shell by something transforming it from within, into its opposite...which made me recall Taoism, and I think it was Empedocles—one of the pre-Socratics, he or Heraclitus, I suppose, the point being that one of them had argued that any quality contains its opposite within it and will be transformed into it (yin into yang, etc .) if pressed far enough . What this then yielded to in my thinking was the concepts of palintropos and palintonos, the whole trampoline
For hours last night I lay in a blissful trance, sensing the capacity of the universe to rebound, its elasticity . You can't break it; it will regain its shape
In an effort to understand how this parabolic reverse-direction comes about I turn to the I Ching (by memory, alas) about the
Always, the seeds, concealed, of the future are here now, if we had a method of discerning them, which could mean set-ground discrimination; anyhow, I am at this moment in sudden wild ecstasy, because viewed this way such Logos material, as I've called it, as the dream in Tears, plus Prelude's song After the Goldrush
There is a great mystery about the Kingdom of God, as to where it is, and the Parousia in general; it is in you, but also among you, and it is invisible but actual . He must mean it is transpersonal . When you participate (yes, that is it); you enter it—did He not use this key word? You enter it; therefore it already exists before you and outside you, which indicates objective existence (contrast ,
If I were to go and declare that I had been changed (in Paul's sense :
etc.103), then if anyone believed me—if—they would say ,
This is the way to put it :
and then the list which follows conforms to the list one would draw, in sequence, of what I experienced, back before that, too, to the distress—lost—period which ran on months if not years . What I went through both bad (before 3-74) and good (3-74 on) had to be gone through, like an enormous spiritual transcendental car wash—a human being refurbishing system, so complex as to beggar description, beginning with the dreams of the flying monsters with horse's necks (dragons) and then picking up in distinctness with the chromatic flash-cut graphics, the latter night being, if any section can be so said to be, the moment when the Spirit began to pour out onto and into me . The beginning, in other words, of the New . Up to then it had been nothing but various aspects of me perishing—dying . The rebirth began with the graphics; the turning-point in the parabolic orbit had begun . I was re-entering life, as new life re-entered me: from above . The thing about all this is that if it is said to me, severely ,
etc., I can say, I know . (Or I think I know . I hope I know . I hope I don't just have hubris about this . I hope I'm not just boasting . If I am I'm sorry .) I think, though, really, what is convincing about it when I view it objectively is that, remembering back, I was genuinely broken down, stripped down, torn down to my skeletal plating, like an insect who has woven a cocoon, and then I passed through months of uniquely and actually unimaginable rebuilding processes, all adventitious to me, improving and teaching me, altering me—well, the possession
( 13) I called cats she he.
I have a sudden new thought about Vinland
It could be an important observation or insight to say that I did not have a religious mystical experience, with God—as such; I encountered or discerned or perceived or experienced (assimilated the Dinge-an-sich in totality) which we call the universe, and found it to be alive, wise, active (Vast Active Living Intelligence System) and supporting to life, such as ours . Only by degrees—and the process of elimination—did I come at last to call this God.
[ ...] To return to Heinrich Zimmer's Magdeburg Hemispheres , 104 probably, if not certainly, my perceptions of the outside universe cleared up and became lucid and total because my inner world, my psyche, cleared up and became lucid and a total unity: like outer, inner; like inner, outer . In Jungian terms I abruptly integrated the contents of my mind, with spectacular results (hence all the dreams about alchemy and the Greek period). (I got down to archetypes of the collective unconsciousness, to the very bottom .) This is the road; this is how you do it, total integration . This is the road to God, withdrawing all projections, reconciling the opposites, release of all libido . Transformation from ego to true self . But—How did I accomplish that, while lying in my room listening to bubblegum rock, with no outside help (sic: none?)? Spontaneous psychic integration, the goal of analytical psychology . I went on the journey into the unconscious, which Jung and John Weir Perry105 describe (period before the graphics). (Resembling the Bardo Thödol .) Perhaps it could be properly said, as I sometimes think, that my psychotic journey began in 1970 in earnest that day I kept playing the Paul McCartney record over and over, when Nancy and Isa left . I had been neurotic
Also, it must be realized that the journey part (1970/74) was characterized by acute primitivism of outlook on my part, the mystique thing Lévy-Brühl106 talks about (I think I'm talking about schizophrenia, here, not manic depression). But this indicates that the 3-74 experience, which was re-entry, is non-psychotic, a healed experience, and the withdrawn projections indicate a sophisticated non-primitive viewpoint or functioning . As Jung says re Meister Eckhart, by withdrawing my projections I experienced God psychologically, as an inner event not entangled with external objects, but purely so: authentically . Put another way, starting the chromatic graphics, I evolved up through 2,000 years of human history-evolution-psychological-growth . Thus a very archaic personality came awake in me, suddenly, which is to say, the adult I had never been in all my life . Buried deep in my collective unconscious all these years, it possessed spiritual and practical wisdom acquired from the archetypes . Therefore I say this new personality or person was created from the deepest levels of my psyche, a child or rather new man from the collective experience and wisdom of the race, and has an incontestable superiority over my original ego self . This fits the description of born again as certainly as could be . * From madness to sanity and a new, better self . I think I should feel free to attribute my cure to God, as a miracle of His doing—as when Jesus caused the blind man to see: it shows God's love . Certainly I did not heal myself, and it is hard to rationalize that it somehow was spontaneous, which is to say, uncaused . I would know, wouldn't I? I heard the voice of my physician ,
While you are dead the Kingdom remains invisible to you . I think in 2-75 I began to see it . It is a spiritual kingdom, and in the process of becoming actual (physical, literal, visible). We are the dead, as in Ubik, who must be roused by the sound of His voice . But not roused to physical life but spiritual life (as the grain of what is not raised as it was sown). (But raised in a new, spiritual, better body .) This is why when I saw the King He was dancing among the furrows—which is where the wheat lies sleeping (in death); he made a sound to them in some way; a form of music . He, the spring King, was calling the sleeping wheat up into life, from where they were buried in the furrows; this is what spring, and his voice, mean . Thus it is said of Dionysos that he
