[ 21:16] It replaced my psyche with its noös . That is what happened in 3-74, and I knew what it knew, it was me and I was it . Then it subsided, back to syzygy (symbiosis; subliminal control—it feeds info to me to write). I qua author am a function of it! I am a mouth piece for it, which is fine, since it protects me . My corpus of writing is a true picture of the reality situation, since the macrobrain is the actual author . But the audience isn't us here, but the outside; then Zebra, the macrobrain (Logos) is in here, inside this bubble
Maybe the antagonist is entropy . The Empire (age of iron) is entropic (we had already figured this out); newness (energy poured into the material system—time?) is needed to cause it, the system, to progress into real time and the age of gold . So the override in 3-74 was against entropy, as escalation of ergic force in me—an anti-entropic vitality; the system, like a clock, runs down, and this is what Zebra combats . (cf . Ubik re Entropy!!!) Entropic time is adegenerate or spurious time . The age of iron wore out, but a congealed freeze frame
This is all dealt with in Ubik—the form-reversion as entropy: time moving backward to
[ 21:18] The true actual time is c. A.D. 45—since then mere Palmer Eldritch time
[ 21:18] The creation of info is negentropic . So Zebra generates info, primarily a verbal analog of itself from which it can be reconstituted by means of a pattern . This pattern (or Logos) is superimposed on a human mind, and a microreplication of Zebra results . The person is now isomorphic with the macroplasmate and is possessed by it, aligned by its shape . This is negentropic: pattern or form overpowering chaos . This runs counter to the entropic decay going on in our declining world . It isn't just energy that's transferred but energy (time) and pattern (Logos). This is the creation of the homoplasmate which I speak of . The syzygy or symbiosis; born from above which did not exist in history before Pentecost—the time and place of Acts.
It actually exists in the info it permeates the universe with . It isn't separate from the words it permeates . If the verbal cycle is interrupted, not its memory is destroyed but it itself . (The set-ground King Felix.
So somewhere along the line it entered me as information and patterned me so that in my own writing I replicated (and boosted) it; it got distributed (e.g., in Tears). Not just info concerning it, but it itself . It didn't enter me in 3-74; the writing proves that . In 3-74 neural circuits which had never fired were disinhibited by a drastic drop in GABA fluid set off by the Golden Fish sign in 2-74, and the plasmate in me took conscious control; was born
It assembles itself intact in a human brain from a collage taken from song lyrics, ads, novels, TV, movies—any and all info media, verbal and graphic . Once begun, it governs the person into seeking out the missing parts of the pattern (i.e., it). It even describes itself—e.g., the Bowie flick, Ubik, etc . What must be realized is that its pattern (identity) is a (total) message: it is info . King Felix
This is what Paul meant by ,
[ 21:21] The information virus
( 3) It breaks the astral determinism (it frees us): Electric Ant
( 4) It removes amnesia: Impostor
[ 21:22] This all goes back to what I figured out before: it is the irreal vs. the real; the inauthentic vs. the authentic . I.e., that which is (being) in contrast to that which only seems . So to me it is epistemology which is involved: rootedness in truth vs. the lie . Throughout all my writing (including TMITHC especially) there is a preoccupation with fakes and the fake: fake worlds, fake humans, fake objects, fake time, etc.
is the essence of it . Again and again I attempt to formulate criteria for what is fake and what is not fake, in every area . From a comic book to a world leader to a girl friend to an entire universe.
[ 21:25] It is an important realization that there are microchips (templates) of the total macrocosm floating around, capable of being superimposed on, e.g., humans, animals, matter, etc., like bits of a huge hologram—and this is the Logos (not what it does but is). I shouldn't say floating around because actually this is the template of the Logos, but—it can incise the microtemplate over and over again, and it contains everything . The totality is divine, so that the divine is carried down to any level it wishes, to any time and place it wishes, and to anyone . The act of incising the template may be a complex one (for me it took years to achieve). This micropattern is alive, and seeks to replicate itself . It does, as information . To know certain things is to cause the micropattern to come into being, conversely, if/when it comes into being you know certain things; the two are equal . They are the same . In 2-74 I suddenly knew about Acts ,
I guess the thousands of years of memory which I experienced in 3-74 on were its, but I was it, so they were mine (but not PKD's if you define PKD as someone who came into existence in 1928). I was it . That says it all . This is what Paul meant when he said ,
Behold, I tell you a sacred secret; we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye.
[ 21:37] Dream: store of rare old S-F magazines; I am searching for a serial (novel) called ,
[ 21:42] I just remembered my Siddhartha dream: the book in two parts, with part 1 ending with
A fifth Savior is now being born! There have been many revelations and dreams to me about this . The Gnostics believed in two ages: the present one evil—the next (future
[ 21:50] Voice :
VALIS will be an attempt to show that intervention and the redeemed state, but it is proving too difficult to write . This novel must be written, and I have the redeemed state of 2-74/2-75 to base it on, but God, what a task: to depict (1) that which redeems; (2) the process of redemption; (3) the redeemed (restored) state of man—in contrast to the occluded state (described in Scanner). It could take the rest of my life to do it . I don't know if I can . It must be divided into two parts: (1) unredeemed (and then the entity which redeems and the process); and (2) the redeemed state . Like the Siddhartha 2-part book I dreamed about . Restored man—the Christ-man, the second Adam . What a responsibility—what a task . But it must be done . And it must—like the Siddhartha
[ 21:52] The Rhipidon Society means: very early fish society—i.e., the secret early fish Christians . The message of this dream, then, is an important one: a secret true-Christian society does exist, as I suspected, and probably the info and cypher in Tears was aimed at them . As a fish I could not carry—literally, since I had no hands—a gun; this means I am indeed a true Christian (and a member of the Rhipidon Society; I have been initiated into it by the Savior himself): as he said ,
This is why Rome c. A.D. 45 and USA 1974 are syntonic—can be superimposed . Otherwise, there is no possible way—and no way, upon seeing it, to comprehend it . Here is the answer . Appear time has passed . See? He is talking counterfeiting eternity—trying to duplicate it, as an end in itself . It is a fraud . And here is how it's done . (I.e., to make things look different.
The E. of Phil . article on time says ,
This makes me think of the furious rate of permutation of the phosphene graphics . Was the entire remainder of the Karmic
[ 21:78] I happened to read the E. of Phil . article on Brahmanism, and find under epistemology the principle of parsimony applied to the question of whether there is an external universe separate from the sense impressions (impinging data) of it . The argument runs that since the external universe
For me, however, I achieved saintliness and the higher truth, evil disorder is simply the perception that reality is not so arranged as to (1) help us individually, or (2) make sense to us . But reality is not for our individual benefit but for the macrobrain's: its interests are never subordinated to ours . This has to be so, since we are portions of it . If its interests were sacrificed, ultimately we—all existence—would die.
Actually, I phrased it correctly initially above :
I saw world first; then it became volitional . Yes, world reverted back from its dead state or sleeping state: it unfroze . As if world were a temporary state, and it resumed its true one—ceased to pose (or assume) the aspect of causal world . That make of world a pose or fiction—ah—I have it . The living reality played dead to blend in: camouflage . That was and is my key term: camouflage . So that it looked like world and couldn't be told from it . Mimicking, mimesis, playing dead, to blend in: yes—indistinguishable from world . No way our senses could do a set-ground discrimination . I was only aware of it by its activity: when it acted; otherwise, when blending, even in my heightened state I couldn't have discerned it . So there is no way to say how much of world it has replaced—i.e., what percent and which parts are world and which parts it . This is not panpsychism and maybe not immanent deity, but a UTI systematically replacing (transubstantiating progressively
I feel that anticipation now, about the return of the rightful king, who, as he said to me deep in the night: Crossbonding as in crossbreeding.
Supra, I've gone deeply into this . I have the extraordinary revealed sentence to go on :
I have energetically exegeted this sentence, with stunning results . To recap: there is only seeming difference . Therefore there is no real difference . The purpose of this seeming but irreal difference is to bilk us into believing time has passed . Therefore no time has passed . He does it; therefore a conniving, deceiving he is involved who has power over us—specifically the power to generate what I call look-differents
But I simply can't grasp it . What is really out there? Aha! The word things . external objects . So an objective reality of some kind exists, but although it appears to change—and from this our brains erroneously infer that time (whatever that is) has passed, it does in fact not change—i.e., the look-differents are fake indices of change . When something changes it usually looks different, so we go on the latter and do not appreciate the distinction . Someone—this he
Who the hell is this he
[ 22:1] We are being fed a spurious reality . Only in rare cases are people doomed
We have no concepts or language to express what we really are and where we really are . Homoplasmate expresses the successful goal of our growth . Crossbonding—we are being grown in a stationary fashion, and, when ripe, are crossbonded with a plasmate, and the illusion removed . Our lives as humans are just preparation, with no purpose except to mature
A complex act of moral-perceptual denial must take place, an insight: it can't be real, which is a correct appraisal; otherwise it never goes away . Despite what our senses report, somehow awareness (enlightenment) is available to us in some kind of reasoning or satori or cognition or leap of realization :
[ 22:4] If radical idealist epistemological skepticism is applied to world, and is sincerely believed, a miracle happens; the Dibba Cakkhu 3rd eye opens and we experience the irreality of the world and become a Buddha . World vanishes, and information fired at us by an intelligence remains—fills in the vacuum left.
—Dibba Cakkhu; If a flux is seen: no hypostasis . Flash cut, the inner tape
This is the core of it, which I must commit to memory . We are carriers, modulated by info, living info . There is no world . Our only real existence is wave form modulated into us by this info-organism which creates us, grows us, uses us . At a certain level we peak into participatory consciousness of our use (purpose); otherwise it goes on subliminally . It rides
[ 22:9] Anything that can direct and control our lives inside and out, and generate our world, has to be—by functional definition—called God.
When I realized that it generates our world I should have realized then . It is indeed the creator, sustainer, lord of history and judge . And there is an unfolding plan and revelation of him and of that plan, to some degree imparted to me . That makes me a prophet of the Lord . And I hear the
Yes, there was my great clue to the truth, when I realized he generates [our] world . What else—who else—can he be but God? I see world correctly, as emanating from him; he lies within and behind it . He is the ground of being—that which all reality is based on . Reality
In my (i.e., PKD) anarchy and rebellion I rose up against God.
( 6) But: he has sent a savior to redeem us . He de-occludes us on an individual basis . (
My books (and stories) are intellectual (conceptual) mazes . And I am in an intellectual maze in trying to figure out our situation (who we are and how we got into this world, and world as illusion, etc .), because the situation is a maze, leading back to itself, and false clues show up, such as our rebellion.
Satori: We wanted to see if we could create a convincing world (ape of God!), but we had to be sure we could get back out if it seemed convincing . [...] The irony is that if we were successful, if our world were convincing, we would be trapped (by it). Then we must have hoped it would be convincing and we would therefore find it real and hence be trapped . But we could not take the risk of this situation being endless; we had to build in the reminding voice which we now regard as God (and rightly so, since it is transcendent to world). (God is the sole true reality—in contrast to our irreal world, and the sole thing breaking in from outside . Like in Ubik .) (Everything else we experience is part of the irreality of this delusional world .) (This is why it is a low, murmuring
My personal escape may be due to intellectual reasons, since our fall was originally an intellectual error, so to speak, a test we were running to see if our world was convincing . We were playing with fire, as the saying goes—seeing if we could construct an irreal world (counterfeit) which would fool even its fabricators: the supreme test . Our nemesis was to be successful and hence by definition fall victim to it . This shows up in Stigmata in the taking of Eldritch's drug, and in Maze in plunging voluntarily into the polyencephalic fusion . (But the Persus 9
In Maze they ask the TENCH what the words
