( with a sly glance at me )
said my dignified little friend (through Vittoria )
( said Vittoria )
If you are so foolhardy as to ask a Whileawayan child to
The Winter solstice (You haven't lived if you haven't seen us running around in our skivvies, banging on pots and pans, shouting
There is an unpolished, white, marble statue of God on Rabbit Island, all alone in a field of weeds and snow . She is seated, naked to the waist, an outsized female figure as awful as Zeus, her dead eyes staring into nothing . At first She is majestic; then I notice that Her cheekbones are too broad, Her eyes set at different levels, that Her whole figure is a jumble of badly-matching planes, a mass of inhuman contradictions . There is a distinct resemblance to Dunyasha Bernadetteson, known as The Playful Philosopher (A.C. 344—426), though God is older than Bernadetteson and it's possible that Dunyasha's genetic surgeon modelled her after God instead of the other way round . Persons who look at the statue longer than I did have reported that one cannot pin It down at all, that She is a constantly changing contradiction, that She becomes in turn gentle, terrifying, hateful, loving, stupid dead
Jeannine wakes from a dream of Whileaway . She has to go to her brother's this week . Everything suggests to Jeannine something she has lost, although she doesn't put it to herself this way; what she understands is that everything in the world wears a faint coating of nostalgia, makes her cry, seems to say to her ,
She's fond of not being able to do things; somehow this gives her a right to something . Her eyes fill with tears . Everything's a cheat . If she gets up right now, she'll be able to make the early bus; she also wants to get away from the dream that still lingers in the folds of her bedclothes, in the summery smell of her soft old sheets, a smell of herself that Jeannine likes but wouldn't admit to anybody . The bed is full of dreamy, suspicious hollows . Jeannine yawns, out of a sense of duty . She gets up and makes the bed, then picks paperback books up off the floor (murder mysteries) and puts them away in her bookcase . There are clothes to wash before she goes, clothes to put away, stockings to pair and put in the drawers . She wraps the garbage in newspaper and carries it down three flights to put it in the garbage can . She routs Cal's socks from behind the bed and shakes them out, leaving them on the kitchen table . There are dishes to wash, soot on the window sills, soaking pots to scour, a dish to put under the radiator in case it goes on during the week (it leaks). Oh . Ugh . Let the windows go, though Cal doesn't like them dirty . That awful job of scrubbing out the toilet, whisk-brooming the furniture . Clothes to iron . Things always fall off when you straighten other things . She bends and bends . Flour and sugar spill on the shelves over the sink and have to be mopped up; there are stains and spills, rotting radish leaves, and encrustations of ice inside the old refrigerator (it has to be propped open with a chair to defrost itself). Odds and ends of paper, candy, cigarettes, cigarette ashes all over the room . Everything has to be dusted . She decides to do the windows anyway, because it's nice . They'll be filthy in a week . Of course nobody else helps . Nothing is the right height . She adds Cal's socks to her clothes and his clothes that she has to take to the self-service laundry, makes a separate pile of his clothes that have to be mended, and sets the table for herself . She scrapes old food from her cat's dish into the garbage, washes the dish, and sets out new water and milk . Mr. Frosty doesn't seem to be around . Under the sink Jeannine finds a dishcloth, hangs it up over the sink, reminds herself to clean out under there later, and pours out cold cereal, tea, toast, orange juice . (The orange juice is a government package of powdered orange-and-grapefruit and tastes awful .) She jumps up to rummage around for the mop head under the sink, and the galvanized pail, also somewhere down in there . Time to mop the bathroom floor and the square of linoleum in front of the sink and stove . First she finishes her tea, leaves half the orange-and-grapefruit juice (making a face) and some of the cereal . Milk goes back in the refrigerator—no, wait a minute, throw it out— she sits down for a moment and writes out a list of groceries to buy on the way back from the bus in a week . Fill the pail, find the soap, give up, mop it anyway with just water . Put everything away . Do the breakfast dishes . She picks up a murder mystery and sits on the couch, riffling through it . Jump up, wash the table, pick up the salt that falls on the rug and brush it up with the whisk-broom . Is that all? No, mend Cal's clothes and her own . Oh, let them be . She has to pack and make her lunch and Cal's (although he's not going with her). That means things coming out of the icebox again and mopping the table again—leaving footprints on the linoleum again . Well, it doesn't matter . Wash the knife and the plate . Done . She decides to go get the sewing box to do his clothes, then changes her mind . Instead she picks up the murder mystery . Cal will say ,
While-away . While . A . Way . To While away the time . That means it's just a pastime . If she tells Cal about it, he'll say she's nattering again; worse still, it would sound pretty silly; you can't expect a man to listen to everything (as everybody's Mother said). Jeannine gets dressed in blouse, sweater, and skirt for her brother's place in the country, while in the valise she puts: a pair of slacks to go berrying in, another blouse, a scarf, underwear, stockings, a jacket (No, I'll carry it), her hairbrush, her makeup, face cream, sanitary napkins, a raincoat, jewelry for the good dress, hair clips, hair curlers, bathing suit, and a light every-day dress . Oof, too heavy! She sits down again, discouraged . Little things make Jeannine blue . What's the use of cleaning a place over and over again if you can't make something of it? The ailanthus tree nods to her from outside the window . (And why won't Cal protect her against anything? She deserves protection .) Maybe she'll meet somebody . Nobody knows—O nobody knows really—what's in Jeannine's heart (she thinks). But somebody will see . Somebody will understand . Remember the hours in California under the fig tree . Jeannine in her crisp plaid dress, the hint of fall in the air, the blue haze over the hills like smoke . She hauls at the valise again, wondering desperately what it is that other women know and can do that she doesn't know or can't do, women in the street, women in the magazines, the ads, married women . Why life doesn't match the stories . I ought to get married . (But not to Cal!) She'll meet someone on the bus; she'll sit next to someone . Who knows why things happen? Jeannine, who sometimes believes in astrology, palmistry, occult signs, who knows that certain things are fated or not fated, knows that men—in spite of everything—have no contact with or understanding of the insides of things . That's a realm that's denied them . Women's magic, women's intuition rule here, the subtle deftness forbidden to the clumsier sex . Jeannine is on very good terms with her ailanthus tree . Without having to reflect on it, without having to work at it, they both bring into human life the breath of magic and desire . They merely embody . Mr. Frosty, knowing he's going to be left at a neighbor's for the week, has been hiding behind the couch; now he crawls out with a piece of dust stuck on his left eye-tuft, looking very miserable . Jeannine has no idea what drove him out Bad cat! There was something about her . She watches the blotchy-skinny-cat (as Cal calls him) sneak to his milk dish and while Mr. Frosty laps it up, Jeannine grabs him . She gets the collar around his neck while Mr. Frosty struggles indignantly, and then she snaps the leash on . In a few minutes he'll forget he's confined . He'll take the collar for granted and start daydreaming about sumptuous mice . There was something unforgettable about her She ties him to a bed post and pauses, catching sight of herself in the wall mirror: flushed, eyes sparkling, her hair swept back as if by some tumultuous storm, her whole face glowing . The lines of her figure are perfect, but who is to use all this loveliness, who is to recognize it, make it public, make it available? Jeannine is not available to Jeannine . She throws her jacket over one arm, more depressed than otherwise . I wish I had money
she tells the cat.
Nights and nights alone . (
says the stairwell.
Jeannine has an older brother who's a mathematics teacher in a New York high school . Their mother, who stays with him during vacations, was widowed when Jeannine was four . When she was a little baby Jeannine used to practice talking; she would get into a corner by herself and say words over and over again to get them right . Her first full sentence was, Mm, Why? says Mrs. Dadier, her blue eyes opening wide . Nothing, Fishing ,
says Mrs. Dadier.
says Mrs. Dadier.
Listless Jeannine pushes her chair back from the table.
observes Mrs. Dadier, mildly surprised . We have to get out of here.
says Jeannine, edging out ,
and she's gone . Mrs. Dadier doesn't smile when there's nobody there . Mother and daughter wear the same face at times like that—calm and deathly tired—Jeannine idly pulling the heads off weeds at the side of the path with an abstract viciousness completely unconnected with anything going on in her head . Mrs. Dadier finishes the dishes and sighs . That's done . Always to do again . Jeannine comes to the path around the lake, the great vacation feature of the community, and starts round it, but there seems to be nobody nearby . She had hoped she would find her brother, who was always her favorite . (My big brother Kiss me, O.K.? She leans forward with her arms pulled back to avoid getting fish scales on herself, one cheek offered invitingly . Her brother kisses her . Eileen appears around the corner of the house, leading the boy . Kiss Auntie, Jeannine ,
says Eileen Dadier reproachfully to her son, Jeannie, I know ,
I went on, for her own good . Not Cal.
( I was getting impatient . )
said Jeannine . For a plan . My impression that somebody else had been echoing her was confirmed by a brief cough behind me after these words . But it turned out to be Mr. Dadier, come out to fetch his sister . He took her by the arm and pulled her toward the door . Huh, says Bro . He's about to expostulate.
You can see the blood rush to his face, even in this bad light . That's what comes of being misunderstood . You just— Bud Dadier begins, but Janet anticipates him by vanishing like a soap bubble . What do you think Bud stands for—Buddington? Budworthy? Or Bud friend
' I'm sorry ,"says Jeannine penitently.
says her brother . Oh, Bro— says Jeannine unhappily . Why are women so unreasonable?
( He straightens his shirt collar .) I do ,
There are girls with nice brothers and girls with nasty brothers; there was a girl friend of mine who had a strikingly handsome older brother who could lift armchairs by one leg only . I was on a double date once with the two of them and another boy, and my girl friend's brother indicated the camp counselors' cottages . Menopause Alley!
We all laughed . I didn't like it, but not because it was in bad taste . As you have probably concluded by this point (correctly) I don't have any taste; that is, I don't know what bad and good taste are . I laughed because I knew I would have an awful fight on my hands if I didn't . If you don't like things like that, you're a prude . Drooping like a slave-girl, Jeannine followed Bro into the clubhouse . If only older brothers could be regularized somehow, so that one knew what to expect! If only all older brothers were younger brothers . Anybody.
he said, taking off his glasses, Oh ,
he said in a choked voice, nearly crying . He pressed her hand.
She began reckoning him up again, that swift calculation that was quite automatic by now: the looks, the job, whether he was romantic, did he read poetry? whether he could be made to dress better or diet or put on weight (whichever it was), whether his hair could be cut better . She could make herself feel something about him, yes . She could rely on him . After all, his wife might divorce him . He was intelligent . He was promising . I understand ,
Poor man . She wet her lips and didn't answer, feeling the sun strike her on all sides, deliciously aware of her bare arms and neck, the picture she made . Mm?
said Jeannine, imagining how he might look that way.
The surprised gratitude of a man reprieved . I really do like him . He bent closer—this alarmed her for the canoe, as well as disgusted her (Freud says disgust is a prominent expression of the sexual life in civilized people) and she cried out ,
That night Jeannine fell in love with an actor . The theatre was a squat, low building finished pink stucco like a summertime movie palace and built in the middle of a grove of pine trees . The audience sat on hard wooden chairs and watched a college group play
You can't expect romance to last your life long, Jeannine: candlelight dinners and dances and pretty clothes are nice but they aren't the whole of life . There comes a time when one has to live the ordinary side of life and romance is a very small part of that . No matter how nice it is to be courted and taken out, eventually you say I do What way? What!
said Eileen, laughing . Jeannine had been shocked right out of her sorrow . She turned to her sister-in-law and said, with unwonted energy, between her teeth: Oh honey ,
said Jeannine vehemently . X laughed nervously.
she said very low, to X ,
said Eileen brightly.
said Eileen affectionately, possibly more for X's benefit than her sister-in-law's ;
said Jeannine, almost under her breath, Come on, Really? Really ,
says Mrs. Dadier.
This is Mrs. Dadier, carefully keeping her voice neutral because she knows how Jeannine hates interference in her own affairs . Jeannine makes a face and then laughs again.
She seems to see the funny side of it more than Mrs. Dadier does . Bro, says the latter ,
says Jeannine, aggrieved . (She's lying . )
says Mrs. Dadier.
but this morning, instead of flinging off in a rage, her daughter kisses her on the top of the head and announces ,
says Mrs. Dadier deprecatingly ;
