Thoughts while napping :
( St. Teresa of Avila :
Christ has no body now but yours, anywhere on the world.
[ ...] One thing I've meant to write you about (did I?) is the long piece you wrote on Flow My Tears which will appear in England's sole SF maga zine.31 Malcolm, at the risk of repeating myself in case I said this already, in that piece you expressed certain ideas about my writing which struck me as so important and so meaningful that I was dazzled, and for me, anyhow, it was one of those rare critical works which shed a fundamentally new light on my own work for me, the author . It made sense out of things in my work, aspects, underlying connectives, which I had never discerned properly—but had tried to discern . In particular your remarks about Ubik jolted my mind into furious—and delighted—activity . I've sent the piece on to a lady who is writing a post-graduate thesis on my writing, telling her how important, how truly astonishing!, your piece is, in my opinion . When you discuss how the idios kosmos is invaded by what I think you describe as the
A deliberate structure/artifact which they jointly maintain against the threat of reality, against what, if they somehow relaxed, they would find they could allow to seep in...as it later does . They have collectively generated their reality outside their field of conscious awareness . (At night, in sleep, this mental mechanism dims, and other elements slide in, but are of course ruled out the next day on awakening, as being mere phantasms .) After the bomb blast in Ubik, as I was writing it, I suddenly had to stop, to realize, with a jolt (I recall that day well, as I sat at my typewriter empty headed and empty paged, as it were), with no preconception at all as to how their new world would be, compared with the one they'd been living in . They were alive; they had been killed; all at once, for plot purposes, I needed to imagine a world so-to-speak as it was, which the closest ana log we commonly discuss would be: what is the room like when I'm not in it? I tried to imagine their world for them when it lacked this projection machinery and artifact-like material which they naturally, as do we, maintained constantly, outside awareness . Being dead, they had no force . (
or however it goes . Guess it 's
What ties all this up—for me anyhow—is about ten months ago I began reading about two fascinating new areas of study: Robert Ornstein's work in causing the right hemisphere to come on in people, his view as I'm sure you know being that we use only our left, and also the ortho-molecular vitamin formula, which is supposed to produce radically improved neural firing in the brain . As if there weren't enough, I also began to read what to me was the most extraordinary idea of all: that the human brain (are you ready?) can transduce external electrical fields, both high and low frequency, if the fields are weak, if the thermal factor is low, and if it so does, its efficiency is augmented by the field-influx . Well, Malcolm, having the ortho-molecular vitamin formula in my possession I began experimenting...and to compound all this, I had written the rough draft of my new novel A Scanner Darkly, in which I studied the drug-damaged brain and concluded that the basic impairment which I'd seen in the burned-out members of the drug subculture which so horrified me, had to do with split brain phenomena of some obscure kind, and had done a vast amount of study on this, and theorizing for the novel . Putting all the above together, I set out to obtain a radically improved efficiency in my own neural firing, with the emphasis on, hopefully, causing my unused right hemisphere to wink on and function as Ornstein at Stanford says it ought to . (
Well, Malcolm, I've said more than I intended . Much of this would have gone into my London speech—some had, in the part I'd done before flu hit . Before closing, I want to stress that I was indeed lucky (although my heightened view of the world showed me that what we call luck is arranged methodically by our guiding Creator, and doesn't happen by chance), inasmuch as not only did I transduce an external field successfully into the electrical field of my neurological system, as has been shown in laboratory work over recent years, but that field which I transduced was, shall we say, a benign one, that is, it promoted both mental and physical healing in me...a long process, but a start, inasmuch as I am quite a bit better off in both counts than before . I would characterize this transduced field as a semi-living bioplasmic field, sentient and deathless; I could see it in a few subtle arrangements outside me, so I realized that it had been present but not visible to me . [...] I don't know about weak fields—I lack the technical training to identify it, but it is a plasma, very heavy and although possessing enormous mass, capable of terrific velocity on occasion; like red-and-gold shining mercury, it flowed off and disappeared almost as soon as I spied it, which was only a couple of times . When it pours into a person, which it can do and does do on rare occasions he claims that The Holy Spirit entered him, or Dionysus ,
Also, I saw a continual use of the joining of two verbal items; they would be kept separate—and hence not causing disinhibiting to occur—until the proper moment . I saw various written items rotate, so to speak, very slowly, inexorably, like a solenoid clock as it ticks along . Then two separate verbal items (such as an ad for beer plus a street sign with the word CRESCENT DRIVE on it, to make up an example—these might remain separate and not be gestalted into one unit by the person for an indefinite time) would by inexorable degrees come together and mesh into an entity . At once, they would signal, and cause neural firing of an inhibited engrammed system in the person . He would not know why he suddenly did what he did; he would feel volition, and like a person under a post-hypnotic suggestion, invent in his mind a plausible explanation . That all this would form an enormous and complex world-clock, synchronized with itself, is evident . Where free-will enters, I saw, is that between the flashing of disinhibiting signals to a person, he is free to play, to do what he wishes; like a child at recess between classes, he can do whatever he wants—until he hears the bell sounding . And, as I perceived it, once the bell
Also, I came to understand this . With all creatures other than man, instinct is the same for each individual of the species; all dragonflies are programmed alike . But, I saw, each individual human being is programmed uniquely, in terms of (1) the signals he can and will encounter during his life, and (2) according to the unique and special purpose set for him by his Creator . A specific destiny is thereby arranged for each person; when he is born, his destiny is in him, and all that is needed is to set him in motion . His Creator knows from the start everything which that person will encounter, and his Creator has by this engramming and signaling system made it possible to determine and control in advance how the person will go, along his course; it is not random; it is not accidental; it never lacks purpose—although, I saw, sometimes for extended time periods the person (any given person) must of necessity be placed on hold—he must mark time until the rest of the cosmos is ready, since everything has to be coordinated . If it were not this way, we would soon have no cosmos . This is why we sometimes have the deep and acute intuition that we are accomplishing absolutely nothing, and no matter how hard we try we can't overcome what we call inertia.
Also, I'm positive, the night's dreams reinforce original training vis-à-vis the disinhibiting signals about to be encountered . Shortly (a day or so, a week maybe at the most) before you run into a particular ad showing canned tuna fish with a drawing of a pretty girl, to which you are to respond with a complex series of acts, you will have a dream, only vaguely remembered, that by reiterating the original training eliminates any possibility that you will not respond when the signal from your environment comes your way . As you and I know from reading S-F stories, one signal missed, and an entire alternate universe would come into being—hardly an economical or orderly way for God to handle things . (You'll find early stories of mine such as Adjustment Team The Commuter
It seems to me that one of the most important points that Angus Taylor36 makes about my preoccupation with Just how real is reality? is that one cannot sense that reality is somehow insubstantial unless somehow, unconsciously, one is comparing or contrasting that reality with a kind of hyper-reality; otherwise the intuition makes no sense . This shows how inexpert I have been regarding my own epistemological perceptions . What, over the years, I have seen (and put into my writing) I have judged correctly, the soap-bubble effect, so to speak, of the phenomenological world . I knew what it indicated about the world around me . Something lay beyond it, or something had constructed it, as a kind of set, or backdrop, or stage, which we all take to be real . But there it is again, the word real.
That I never saw that all this had to apply to our world is a measure of the failure of the artist to discover the relationship between his art (or in my case the worlds within my art, the topic of my art) and life, his life, all our lives, our world . The first philosopher to prove beyond doubt that what our senses perceive as the Real World cannot in actuality be real (not probably isn't, but cannot) was Parmenides . He also realized that this did not tell him, by any known process, what in its stead was real . He could prove only negatives, which we're told can't be done . He did this very thing, and went his way . I think that in my writing I retraced the ground which he traced and came to the same conclusions, but I had the advantage of knowing in the back of my mind (i.e., my unconscious or right hemisphere) about Plato's concept of the idea universe, of which ours is a mirror reflection . You can see that Plato's whole concept was dictated by what Parmenides did somewhat before him; if not dictated by a priori necessity, then sooner or later by existential experience, as in my case (I speak of my March 1974 experience). The criticism, which I remember using in Philo 10A, a survey course at Cal, was that
What I didn't know was that after Plato's time the Platonists and Neoplatonists developed methods of encountering that very real world of the Logos or archetypes, the plan (this is probably the best English rendering of logos) underlying all phenomena . Once they had begun to experience it, as I did quite by chance in March 1974, they re ally put an end to such bickering as I engaged in back in my college days . It is an index of the ignorance of our world today that my instructor's answer was not ,
That for years (about twenty) I have alluded to the possibility of the entire Platonist System being accurate, and that eventually, without premeditation I actually experienced that universe lying behind ours, concealed within—yes, actually concealed within ours! —is a point of importance in the constructing of a new worldview to replace the old one which is shabby and cracking apart and fading away . This is why the various Marxist intellectuals have been coming here, writing about Ubik, discussing Empedocles vis-à-vis my writing . If I have, and indeed I have, stumbled independently onto Platonism without knowing what it is or what that stumbling upon, that refinding after so many centuries, signifies, then of course I have done something of importance, but not something original . It's as if the formula for Coca Cola were lost for centuries and then someone invented a soft drink, began bottling and selling it, and an incredibly old man (Mel Brooks, maybe) tasted it and shouted ,
The workman is invisible within the workshop.
The basic scientific discovery of my vast metaphysic, which I had written you about, was my postulation of two times at right angles to each other, which I called vertical (which we normally perceive) and horizontal, which is the axis along which the objects in Ubik regress . Now I have the new Britannica, and, in looking up the article on time, I find that, yes indeed, it is speculated now that besides the regular time there may be a hypertime which would be orthogonal, a word I didn't know; I looked it up and sure enough, it means at right angles . Also, someone (Kurt Gödel, I think the Britannica article said38) speculated that the orthogonal time might be curved, since time and space are regarded now as integral, and space does curve; this hypertime would curve back onto itself...and hello, Gracie Slick and
39 The world of trash (e.g., S-F and rock) [has] done did it . The article said that it remains speculation, this orthogonal time, not for me is it, nor was it for Plotinus . So although I have discovered and invented nothing (which is mu
[ 4:166] The forms (categories such as transportation
I never was that former man; as in Ubik the present form (me an adult 44 years old) rolled back to reveal the crypte morphosis
However, this view of it is a linear view, a straight-line view . Maybe a metaphor is more appropriate: such as, the seed within the fruit; i.e., the seed matures (an internal growth motion), which is to say, upward, outward, forward, to the surface; at the same time (a reciprocal action of withdrawal) the rotten fruit itself dies away and falls off, to reveal the seed within, the seed now being ready to open and cease its seed-stage growth period . This better expresses a two-way reciprocal action, without the unilateral concept of regression which alone is inadequate . Perhaps I did not retreat backward along any time line, but rather, Rome came forward . (Rome equals the world of Tears which equals the U.S. as it's about to become; by logic, then, Rome equals the U.S. as it's about to become .) This solves the mystery of why so much material in Acts
Piercing the veil, seeing into the heart of our (present) world, I saw Urbs-Roma; it underlay/lies; it is the core, the seed within the fruit; what our world actually is once all the layers of delusion are stripped away . Seed, then, equals Being . Rotten fruit or veil equals surface appearance . Only the external trappings (the names) have been changed . Successive layers of reality are involved, a penetrating into the depths further and further . But time, too, horizontal time, is involved, because somehow these layers are arranged along that axis, since that is the form-completing axis . But progression, rather than regression? In terms of penetration to essence, to Being, past and future horizontal time fuse; this is circular time? In favor of this view: along this time axis there are the eternal edola, that which always reoccurs . The One behind the Many; the unchanging behind the flux . Well, that is what I saw; the One (edola) here was Urbs-Roma, which contained within it, as a sub-seed or rather a secret seed-within-seed, the Fish Christians at work transmuting/transforming metal to grief to love . (The progression in Tears .) Metal would equal power . Grief, loss . Love, a reaching out for to embrace what one doesn't have or is . This identifies the horizontal time axis, orthogonal time, as the Logos time in which forms of an archetypal sort are there already and always complete, from which our world is stamped; this is not time as we know it, but eternity . Think of the orthogonal time as a circular drum continually rotating and as it rotates it prints out on the continually moving linear strip of our time of change the perfect forms; thus both times intermingle to form our world and our conception of time
If orthogonal time is circular then there is no regression along its axis in the linear sense; it would be a perpetual return, always a return; the direction of movement is one of depth, not length . That would be why to regress
The only question left unanswered is, Why did the rotary incising drum of archetypal forms print out Urbs Roma instead of another form? Is that the only form it can print out? No, it prints out all the edola there are, as functions of the Logos-activity, but for our space-time continuum (USA 1974) Urbs Roma, specifically Rome of about 100 to 200 A.D., is the specific form/paradigm . If I had looked about me while up in the mountains of Canada I probably would have penetrated to some other essence, i.e., would have perceived another eidos . However, that this Urbs Roma c. 100 A.D. was what I saw shows me why Tears simultaneously is about Rome and about the USA of the 1970s to 1980s . They are the same eidos below, printed out from the same form . It is precisely this circular rotary motion which makes it possible for us to distinguish the fact that the elements there are eternal, since when they leave they reappear; hence cannot be destroyed, as can any given thing along the linear time axis.... One might say, There are two Romes . There is or was the phenomenal Rome printed out in linear time, which is now gone, like every other printed-out thing . But Rome
If I were to say to you :
I conceive our universe—the hologram—to consist of an infinite number of laminated layers arranged in sequence, but not truly in anything that can be called time or space . Time
Most questions on the order of ,
[ ...] Now, herewith I'm enclosing nine strange pages I wrote a couple of weeks ago . I hadn't intended to show them to anyone; they are the carbons on notes I made for a novel, and are very personal, since at the time I thought I and only I would be reading them . However, although it will show how really wild, how really wild my inner life is, as if you hadn't suspected, it will give you something to go on re my metaphysic...remember, these 9 pages were done before the recent series of letters I've sent you, so regard them in correct chronological order, if you will, by mentally backdating . However, since they are notes for an actual novel—no shuck—I think you will appreciate them, as they show first how the general idea came to me (a time dysfunction). That this idea is based on an actual experience of mine . How as soon as I had the handle to the idea I turned it ad hoc into a novel idea . Then into a plot . The sequence of these pages is authentic, Claudia: they show my normal procedure, the order in which these processes occur to me; for example, the title coming to me almost at once (e.g., To Scare the Dead, in this case). Claudia, when I started writing these 9 pages, on page one I did not have the idea for the novel; you will see it all at once, out of nothing in a way, and yet based on everything in my head, a year of happenings and research and thought—suddenly ,
there it is; nothing was premeditated before I sat down to write these . Thus you will have here a genuine record of how I always go about my work . This is the paradigm for me, for my MO . I hope you will get out of it what I know to be there: idea into novel, idea out of my life, hence novel out of my life . And so then, perhaps at long last, you will see for yourself, maybe better than anyone else ever has, the exact lines of relationship between my life and my work . Enough said, and so to mailbox, except I wish to add this: on one of these enclosed 9 pages is a bit about Zeus Zagreus, and a quote about
etc . This is what I heard in a dream . I saw before me a few sentences from the New Testament which included the name Jesus . Then this was shown me (I'm not kidding you): the name or word Jesus was drawn open, literally reached down into and opened, to reveal that it was a crypte morphosis, a code word, made up to conceal first the actual name of the God, which was Zagreus, and then the word was reshuffled to show that Zeus was within it, too, so that Zeus and Zagreus were within (the Being, the ontology) a mere code cover or what they call plaintext cypher, Jesus . In the early days the Christians who read the plaintext would know what Jesus
I really urge you to go to the new Britannica and read the article in the macro on Mystery Religions and all other references about them like in the article Sacraments
[ 4:179] A time dysfunction taking the form of splitting . A person has been here and knows he has been here—the forward flow has not been interrupted—but also he has the acute sense that he has just been somewhere else at another time; he retains no direct evidence of that (serial cortical memories of events) but nonetheless he retains all the secondary impressions: that the atmospheric pressure is now different, which might be autonomic or somatic registering of a change . There are manifold retentions of prior impressions outside the field of conscious awareness; i.e., although he doesn't remember in the ego-sense, his entire mind-body remembers, and cannot shake off these retentions of vivid shortly-prior differences in environment . The body cannot adjust that fast, even if conscious memory is eradicated . [...] Amnesia, whether an accident or calculatedly induced, could not extend throughout the entire body and nervous system, by any sort of over-ride . All I had was an enormous set of conditioned responses—learned reflexes—which were not appropriate to this environment (time and space matrix) but evidently had just been quite recently appropriate, to another time space matrix; I could infer its aspects from them . This goes back to Time Out of Joint and what gave me the idea for it originally, a conditioned response no longer appropriate and unaccountable for . Nothing prior that happened to me gave such distinct impressions of a time dysfunction as the March/Rome one, which would seem to confirm that to me and for me, and then put in my writing, smaller, easier-to-absorb time dysfunctions had in truth taken place, virtually unnoticed . And certainly too small as to give a clue as to the other time space matrix (i.e., to compare the what is to the what had been). This was so massive...but perhaps qualitatively the same . (I suppose it is possible that these are not dysfunctions, though, but deliberate adjustments, à la Adjustment Team, in the process of continual creation . Which would account for my sense of the Holy Other in charge when this major dysfunction took place .) What I call a separate entity
Plot: He is mystified by the fierceness of this entity, its pursuit of justice; he thought Christ and the Christ-consciousness and perfected souls were
like the lamb . But as he reads Revelation, he learns how when Christ returns the next time, it is as judge and king, not as sacrificial lamb; this computes . These are/it is Christ reborn, all right, but Christ
the wraps off, to defeat the tyranny, the Prince of the World, in decisive battle (v. dream in Tears). To keep this from being merely a religious type tract book, the body of it—most of it—should concern the science part: an outright scientific, maybe university lab with equipment, measuring devices (to measure his new bioplasmic electrostatic field, etc .), plus scientific personnel...even government people looking into it? The saucer people as well as other cultists should be ill-described in the book . By making it empirically testable in a lab by guys in white smocks with clipboards and electronic test-gear, it becomes real The Angelic Angleworm
For plot purposes: (1) He shows these mysterious talents, which he himself can't fathom, and he never had them before; (2) then, after this, government agents begin to monitor him; (3) the government agents or whoever, anyhow
close in on him in some sort of complex trap, and this is when the Holy Other in him surfaces and takes over: to totally defeat the trap . (4) From then on, he has this Holy Other living within his head, not in place of him but with him . (5) It would appear to be the government theory that he is, or more precisely, has been invaded by, an entity from another star-system . The fact that he is a government agent/employee himself doesn't help him . In this area, where they believed Earth had been invaded by ETIs, the U.S. and USSR would be working together; these government agents
( Zagreus is the ancient vine-root, which is cut back each year but then is reborn each year; which is eternal . The name Jesus
Our comprehension (understanding) of time is faulty; there seem to be two distinct kinds of time, at right angles to each other: horizontal time (as the form-regressions follow in Ubik) and vertical, which we seem aware of alone . Hence, cubic time, or time seen in both axes simultaneously, like cubic space versus two-dimensional; i.e., time moving in two directions (dimensions) at once . Events are arranged within this cubic space
It's entirely possible that this other time axis (horizontal time) is retrograde, an opposed time-direction, which together with the forward flow, creates cubic time.
In a sense, the universe can be read both ways, but I think the way (direction) we read it is backward . Actually, in 1972 I did not go to Fullerton; I returned to Fullerton; my trip must be read backward . In the true past (comprehended by me wrongly as the future) I had been there already . My vision of Mexico ,
The Go Board which I saw, although it looked like space, was in actuality time . The teleological force [t.f .] placed events at certain intersections—in time, placed them there before the forward-motion of time reached them; the t.f . arranged them, distributed them, in a pattern, in time, as we distributed the buttons on a Go board in space . Set them economically here and there . (I guess space, too, was represented; the nexus was a space-time nexus . It reached back into time and placed buttons ahead of time .) The opposing force could only surge forward, like a tide . March 74: a time roll-back, the force or pressure emanating from the future, moving backward, retrograde . Forward vertical time re-instated itself almost at once, but—the short or brief interval revealed otherwise unsuspected weaker forces, concealed by the massive universal field of forward time . It was almost a time vacuum, into which many elements rushed . Or: the activity of other fields, always there but concealed, were temporarily visible, as they did their constant work . Equilibrium was briefly lost, in confor mity to Lem's analysis . (Had there by any chance been a Soviet experiment with Kozyrev time?) By his theories it would be experienced everywhere at once . (By those sensitive to time fluctuations, such as pre-cogs? Would they then want feedback info from distant tracking stations
My subcortical impressions in March would indicate—not that time leaped back—but that it jumped forward about 2,000 years . It had just been circa 180 A.D. What is most distressing is the notion here of phony memories, generated (as under hypnosis) to fill in; they'd be the ones of Fullerton: the conscious continuity . The others—of Rome—would be the real ones, depicting the actuality . The conjunctive ones, of the interval, would be merely to paste over so as to reveal no rent . It's as if time went directly from 10 A.D. to 1974 A.D., with nothing in between but it was pasted in retrospectively, to give verisimilitude.... The significance in all this of my
At this point one could begin to take it, my writing, very seriously, since everything seems to coalesce into something of meaning . The sense of unreality fits in...the disruption of the ontological categories...the sacerdotal power buried for aeons...it is all of a piece, plus the world of Ubik per se, but the meaning is unsuspected, anyhow by me . I.e., I seem to have taken a number of unrelated unusual experiences or themes to write about, but on closer examination, they all group around the time-disruption matter . The others are collateral, such as the false memories, etc.—which, for god's sake, I seem to personally have experienced in my amnesias, several of them . These are indeed based on personal experiences in my life, over ten years . What if prior amnesias were paste-overs over prior disjunctions totally unsuspected? The vivid dreams like of Mexico
The first thing you think of is, Boy, that sure showed bad planning on the part of God . Or, Boy, God sure allowed his Only-Begotten Son to suffer a lot; just how much did God in fact really love His Son, to let that happen? The Christian account doesn't tell us enough to figure it out so it's convincing; there is an enigma here, for those who believe and for those who don't; in the immortal words of Mr. Spock ,
The story of Zagreus, however, sheds light on this, very fascinating light, and it starts then to compute . Zeus sent Zagreus, his Favorite Son, whom He had allowed to sit beside Him on His Heavenly Throne, to Earth in order to hide him . From Hera, according to the myth, but that doesn't seem to me very important; what is important is the motive: Zagreus' father wanted his son to blend, to mingle, to pass, to disappear, to be in appearance just one more child born among millions . Notice how this fits the story about King Herod searching high and low, having the babies executed, etc . See? Now does it begin to make sense? Especially when you recall that one of the Medieval views, discarded, was that this world was either built by an evil god, or anyhow the plan went wrong and this world degenerated, and so a stranger god (that is, a god from somewhere else in the universe, from Outside) came here to fix things up for us and make our world come out right . However, he was found out and killed; this stranger god was the Christ, disguised as a carpenter . It didn't work; the disguise was eventually penetrated and he was arrested, mainly through the paid informer within Christ's circle . There is much quasi-political intrigue here, is there not? It becomes obvious why Jesus spoke of the
The worst thing (for themselves anyhow) for the titans, our cannibal ancestors, to do, was to devour this life form after they had murdered it; thereupon it entered them and was passed down to their heirs somehow (in the DNA coding?), in a dormant crypte morphosis or sleeping form . It sleeps within each of us, waiting to be reawakened (which is exactly what Plato meant by anamnesis, recollection). That which induces anamnesis in any one of us is the external disinhibiting symbol on which we were engrammed originally, at the time He (Jesus) was here . It is the more elaborate ideogram beneath the fish symbol; but alas, the fish symbol has been obliterated by the symbol of the cross . The anticipated disinhibition is postponed . Each of us has this second-stage
The theological doctrine of the soul and the myth about its celestial home, its fall, and its redemption were inseparable . The sequence is beautifully told in the
How does it strike you? What I find personally fascinating is that I have been absolutely positive since last April or so that my entire experience was somehow triggered off (the experience I now would deem that of anamnesis in Plato's sense) by the dark-haired stranger girl who came to my door in late February 1974 wearing the gold fish sign in necklace form, the sign of which fascinated me so that I could not take my eyes off it, or off her . I had been expecting her most of my life: those black eyes, that black hair, and, around her neck, that gleaming gold chain of links culminating in the fish . I still remember saying to her, as if in a daze ,
And the girl, touching it and saying ,
