side of the dialectic—i.e., wisdom, logos—confines the dark
The demonic or insane side of God is barely contained by the irrational or logos or wisdom or bright side: a dreadful theophany indeed . And it is indubitably—beyond doubt—authentic . I know this from having read Paul Tillich's book . I have encountered the demonic, insane, slaying, dark side of God—and seen it contained by the bright
[ 53: C-14] Hypnopompic vision: we live over and over, but because it is erased each time, this paradox results: it is als ob only one time (that is, it is again and again and it is but once). So Christianity is true—and also the pan-Indian doctrine of reincarnation is true; both are equally so . Now, this is a linear journey, and it is eternal (goes on and on forever) until we are saved . And when we are saved we are lifted up very abruptly without warning vertically, at right angles—by a pulley (as in the 17th century poem The Pulley 52), like cargo on a ship, all encompassed in a net of ropes like a little cage of extrication and salvation—lifted up to safety . And what causes this? Anamnesis: recovered memory—loss of (more accurately) the loss of memory of all the previous times; the instant we remember (fail to forget) all the previous times, why, at that instant (2-74) we are saved—lifted up, by Christ . And what causes us to remember? To know . To know (i.e., gnosis) and to remember (anamnesis) are one . And why do we know? Through the training of the intellect; it is an intellectual matter . And why did I remember? It had to do with time . The illusion of time and the breaking of that illusion (which is the dimension or receptacle in which this journey that is linear is repeated throughout infinity); I broke it when I was about 21 years old by reading Maimonides' Guide to the Perplexed, an old Hebrew book.53 And because it was old, and pious, and Hebrew, two things happened: two trackings (lives, reincarnations) became identical due to this common element; that is, in two of them I did the same thing: read this book, and so, because of the way two coaxial worlds can operate off the same common essence or matrix, they became one and thus converted over or passed over each into the other, as if I had traveled back in time . That is one of the two causes of my salvation and it is literal and real: by reading Maimonides in two different lives at two different places and times, these lives became one (viz: my meta-abstraction); this is because of Plato's eidei, the fact of a given eidei, instantiating itself multiple times and places and yet being—remaining—unitary (viz: there is only one Guide to the Perplexed); this is what 2-74 was all about, anamnesis and the meta-abstraction . So half of the reason for my salvation had to do with the fact that (1) we live lives again and again but forget; (2) Plato's forms-metaphysics (coaxial worlds) is the case; (3) there was a single object at two times (now and in the distant past) and two places (USA and Syria/Africa). (Viz: The PTG world that I saw is the Africa of the far past where I first read the Maimonides book, perhaps at the time it was written—it was written in Felix
But there is another and equally necessary reason for my salvation . And it is not a natural
[ 53: D-10] My God—this revelation of earlier tonight: it signifies something else I hadn't realized . This eternal
is broken only when and if anamnesis and noesis (the meta-abstraction) occurs, whereupon you are netted up along the vertical axis as if by pulley—this is precisely the pan-Indian (Hindu and Buddhist) notion of moksa, liberation from the weary wheel of birth, death and rebirth; and in the pan-Indian system restored memory of past lives (or a life) is, as with Plato's anamnesis, the access key . vertical
It is through the 5th axis that the two spatiotemporal continua juxtapose, as if by a fold ,
Biochip symbiote . Mycelia, vine, its branches growing like a circulatory system . Firebright.
Ach! Temporal parallaxis is at right angles to the other three spatial axes . Formerly it was experienced only as time; now it is a spatial axis that revealed 4 depths on the same page of print of Tears . The fifth dimension then enters as time (to replace it), but it is another kind of time (apparently); in any case, this fourth spatial axis (temporal parallaxis) permits the set-ground discrimination, etc . If I had not seen what I call temporal parallaxis
In this fifth dimension time, things are now if they possess a common constituent; viz: now signifies any and all of our fourth dimensional worlds where such a common constituent as, e.g., The Guide to the Perplexed is; this is what the meta-abstraction pertains to: this other kind of time: the illo tempore or dream time, in which one and the same unitary object is at two times and places in terms of how we experience time and place in a four dimensional world; but in a five dimensional world, that golden fish sign was in USA 1974 and Syria A.D. 70 simultaneously; this is how, e.g., the Eucharist works, how through the sacrament time is overcome —normal time becomes space—"temporal parallaxis"and a different time, an added (fifth) dimension enters, and the meta-abstraction was a realization on my part of this coaxiality.
My 5-D realm is precisely what Plotinus was speaking of: concentric rings, not a fall in space and time . It is the realm of the sacred, of Act III of Parsifal; hence ,
[ 53: E-3] We are as in an ocean to them, and we are like lower life forms whom they are trying to contact . But they are very different from us . Thus although they are ETIs they are not from another planet, star-system, etc., but are right here (except in a 5-D world; they can see us but we can't see them).† Plotinus' concentric rings of emanation explain it . Here there is atomization, causation, etc . There, unity exists . Structure—organization—is pure, which is to say, these beings are in a sense incorporeal, yet in another sense they are not; but here, we see not the total being as a unity but rather discrete physical components that add up to nothing, e.g., Valis . We see at best a perturbation of the reality field . My surd.
For 60 seconds last night I was in direct two-way contact with them . Upon my figuring out that there is such a thing as self-authenticating information, at once I asked for what I call cypher source verification and got several, fired very fast, mostly sequences (as are the Fibonacci numbers), as if they had them ready for use at a moment's notice . Sequence patterns, intervals, etc .; I don't remember but they were sufficient, I remember that . They were ebullient; they had achieved their objective . They had proven their external-source origin, the information was not originating in my own mind . The two-way exchange followed the classic lines envisioned by our scientists as to how we would send signal and response back and forth with ETIs, that is, other planets . But this is not other planets; it is a 5-D world that is now and here (known to Plotinus as an ontologically higher realm or concentric ring). I guess you would say that these are the gods
[ 53: E-7] The concept I want is: the 5-D world can intersect with our 4-D world without our being aware of it (this intersecting) or the 5-D world itself, even though the 5-D world is in some sense corporeal; this precisely is the coaxiality and precisely what the meta-abstraction pertains to . The best example is Tears; it is one thing, a unitary object, but it occupies one life here in our 4-D world and tells one story here; in the 5-D world it leads another life and tells another story even though the text is the same in both worlds . However, in the 5-D world, because of the 4th spatial axis (which we experience as time), there are multiple, discriminated sequences of text (and not in 2-D but 3-D). This is how one object can be at—seen at—two times and two places and yet remain one object; viz: two worlds
[ 53: G-4 ]
Frau, sing für unsere Freunde.
They stimulate our phosphenes artificially, by radiation, so we will see in a compensatory fashion what we cannot actually see because of our visual impairment . They, who are deaf, can see in 5-D; i.e., what we—who are blind—can't . This is why I said ,
Meadow . Ape-like sentient other species . Dante, Mathilde . The Holy . Close Encounters—music and color, but—here is where in actuality it breaks down: they are deaf . It is both Christ (the religious) and another species—from another world in 5-D coaxial with ours . They are spatially here, not from another star system in our universe . Thus they stimulate our brains to see holograms . This is what UFOs are . In my vision (dream) they appeared as ape-like to suggest 2001 . And
[ 53: G-8] They are able to hear music by tapping into—patching into—our minds, which is why I said ,
The sight of them, as they crossed the meadow toward me, as ape-like clarifies, to me, that I am dealing with a finite species and not God or angels as we employ the terms . Physically they are corporeal and creatural, dysmorphic in part, isomorphic in part . Dio; it is all true . And I have seen them, as in Close Encounters . They brought back my lost person Dimi or Horace . He was with them in the next sing to our friend, i.e., to communicate, but sing for
They have had to convert to words to communicate with me, i.e., sound; but now they are beginning to convert me to color—their form of communication . Imagine a math/color analog of our Pythagorean math/music! What a different universe—I was in it in 3-74 via a compensatory optic function: phosphene activity (
); and reciprocally they can hear
As I realized a couple weeks ago, what we call music
[ 53: G-10] Hypnagogic AI Voice :
the ape I saw this morning—one of our friends
[ 53: G-14] The wisdom of heaven, once attained, points back down the ladder to Purgatorio.
This is revolution beyond conception; it cannot even be thought! There is something superior to the King of Light (s) and it is the Lyre . What I saw in 2-3-74 to 2-75 is the 5-D world, Paradiso, God . But Purgatorio is superior and the 5-D world knows it, as if the ikon (copy) is superior to the model (Form, archetype), which is impossible . From the standpoint of our species this cannot be thought . At the very instant that they broke in last Saturday night with their math-color world I then saw how they see us; I saw from their viewpoint, and to them, we are the gods and they are apes! Yet we view it the other way around . On Saturday I as a 4-D human saw them and their world, but this morning I saw us as they see us . As if Paradiso is only penultimate . But to know this you must transcend our species . And this is why the soul (in Ted Sturgeon's schema) descends
This morning was a sort of backlash of last Saturday night . They venerate us and yearn for us; we venerate them and yearn for them . It is as if when we die and go to our just reward we go there; and when they die and go to their just reward they come here, as willingly and voluntarily and eagerly as we go there . It turns out to be all relative, then, color vs. music . And the profundity of my insight is evident if the Manichaean, Zoroastrian , 4th Gospel light element is scrutinized; this is the core of our species' spirituality; but theirs reverses it . So to them, to go to their light world is a fall! A sort of Einstein spiritual relativism! But you would have to cross species lines to know this . If instead of a triune division you utilize only a lower-upper binary division our lower realm is their upper; and our upper is their realm and to them it is the lower . Each is the after-life and reward of the other, so an external dynamic transfer continues as we seek liberation from this realm to go there and they to go here . Thus spiritual physical
So the truly ultimate solution is to prefer music while you are here, and prefer light when you are there . This accommodation surpasses Jesus, Mani, Dante, etc . It is a truth that can only be acquired after Paradiso in Dante's terms is reached . It is as if while fallen here, one must die (or die
And my discovery of this must have been purely accidental, for, as I say, this surpasses God, who is after all
It is all conveyed by the enigmatic statement ,
—referring to my tutelary spirit, the AI voice, the voice of the inner realm . The ultimate enantiodromia has set in; and the final veil has been penetrated, and almost accidentally, as if this surpasses even God and God's plan . The lovely Diana turned out to be an ape, but only from their viewpoint—it is all one vast hourglass turned over and over again, forever sad and absurd—but one can learn peace from this and cease to strive . And, in this cessation of striving for the spiritual, comes sanity and freedom, and true release at last from our weary wheel
( 2) Apes in my dream Frau—
God, the creator, is introducing a codominant species into our Park to regain balance in our ecosphere . I am a contactee, but it is Christ, the NT and YHWH also . This is part of his ongoing creation of the garden (our world to which he says, Felix— ,
My PTG is a vision of the ecosphere as Park or Garden: all life here tended by and cared for by YHWH . (Bringing to mind that idea told me when I had my shoulder surgery: that we are a kept biosphere them; this would appear to be the case .) This would tie all my experiences together back to the beetle and culminating in 2-74–2-75 . One must go all the way back to Genesis to understand the PTG, YHWH, restoration, the Fall, all my supernatural
Life became narrative in a book.➊ This is to verify :
Hence the plasmate (Logos) and
When a given narrative (continuum: place and time) is read, it is as if God has called it to mind the way we do with memories; therefore it is intelligible to call the encoding as written info memories of all potential worlds . I guess that I am saying it is accruing; it is—the past—all here, and passes over from latent encoded info into world when read by God's intellect, Hagia Sophia (the narrative that I mentioned in VALIS). [...] Hagia Sophia is to space-time continuum as phonograph is to LP record . So perceiving this encoded info is the first function of the retrieval system, which leads one to believe that Valis's mind was its mind; hence I could see that there was information but not what it said . Apparently she can discriminate a given narrative out of the many . An event does not leave a tracing, as an orchestra playing leaves a trace in a groove or on tape; the info perceives world (the event); that is, the info is ontologically prior and primary; the event (world) is derived from it, not the other way around . If this is not understood (info as giving rise to reality, not reality to info) nothing is understood . The info stage
[ 53: H-25] Here the Tagore vision assumes an extraordinary significance: Christ is the biosphere itself, that is, the primordial Garden that man as a species has broken away from and turned against, destroying it and exploiting it.
pertains to the absolute and essential nature of the situation, both historically and dramatically, as well as morally and spiritually . Once Christ is homologized to the biosphere the nature of original sin is clear—and, with it, the nature of the fall into hell, endless horizontal tracking, and occlusion (as well as the meaning and machinery of salvation); thus a coherent and lucid system emerges, and it is this that (oddly, really) is dealt with in Androids: the cruelty toward the spider is paradigmatic of the evil act committed by a debased and in fact soulless pseudo-human creature against God himself, and symbolizes and expresses the total issue . Hence, logically, the figure of Mercer, his ability to restore life, and the empathy factor itself a fortiori . What debased (Androids) man does now against the biosphere is only the final and ultimate act or step that completes the series of falls that began with original sin and the expulsion from the Garden (i.e., true extinct cosmos—note extinct as in Androids . The E
[ 53: H-26] When I reread VALIS recently it was quite clear to me that Valis is YHWH—and what is YHWH if not creator? And what/whom does he create now? Me, maybe; 2-3-74 was my birth into and as a new species . In which case, when I saw the vision of the apes our friends, mystagogic.
I not only say (in VALIS) that the universe is information but that this information is a narrative, what the narrative is (tells), why, what effect it has on the mind and hence on us . And then last Saturday night I experi enced it (the woman narrating). And only last night (Thursday) did I realize that what I experienced Saturday night with Jeannie is what I reveal in VALIS as the basis not just of the universe but the absolute beyond the universe: the final layer removed . The mystery revealed . How did I know this about the AI voice and the universe? I only found it out—experienced it—last Saturday: the reading of the narrative that creates the universe :
( EB, vol . 12, p. 778-G: mystery religions I woke up this morning with the word mystagogic
The LSD-like perception of reality in 2-3-74 has to do with the greater Eleusian mysteries; the AI voice now precisely defined itself and what it has revealed to me: the greater mysteries . They pertain to Christ (authentic Christianity as a mystery religion offering immortality); that is, the vertical ascent by the pulley ,
[ 53: I-1] Now 99 million possibilities are discarded, and Eleusis alone remains . The extrication by the pulley along the vertical axis not only permits the 5-D experience of world (3-74) but, more, involves immortality in the Eleusian Fields from which we otherwise are cut off due to the endless horizontal tracking; viz: if we are doomed to track horizontally forever—i.e., in this world, living over and over again—how are we to get to the Eleusian Fields, the Isles of the Blessed? 60 The two are mutually contradictory, mutually exclusive . Clearly, the Eleusian Fields
[ 54: J-3] Thus the Sibyl both writes a narrative that she reads aloud and is simultaneously, paradoxically bound by it—must read what it says . This accounts for both determinism (the latter) and pronoia (the former) and is ex nihilo
[ 54: J-4 ]
When I was listening to Strawberry Fields Forever —the contact with Valis, the news about Chrissy's birth defect . I.e., our media and telepathy combined, inner-outer . So there is no way to tell whether the info arises within you or enters from outside; these distinctions are abolished—as I well know from the Strawberry Fields experience . And the whole set-ground temporal parallaxis may be intrinsic to me, using phosphene patterning-firing; hence ,
[ 54: J-5] VALIS: pot, pitcher of water, vase, Krater, limestone font (poros krater), baptismal font . The symbol grows during the book: initially, at the start of chapter 2, we learn (1) of the pot; and (2) that Fat linked up to God through it :
Here already the pot and God are connected . Then later, the theme of the pot shows up vis-à-vis Gnosticism . Later, we learn that the Christians achieved immortality by drinking from a pitcher kept in a cool dark place . But the symbol reaches its height following their seeing the movie; now the pot or pitcher appears and reappears in the film; it is taken from the refrigerator by Linda Lampton, and there is the scene in the film in which the barefoot woman
