must be involved—necessary by iron-clad logic . Well, Acts Brain . It says a lot else, but it has been called Acts Acts material in Tears pointing to the presence (activity) of the brain . Stamp of the origin? Of authenticity—i.e., official Acts Acts
Tears as miraculous sacrament like the eucharist . A way of entering people and—v . Stigmata and Palmer Eldritch's drug replicates him in each user (host or womb
Words as alive, like I saw Felix to be: the printed word carrying a charge of the red and gold plasmic [electrical, neural] energy . Just in that one place in the novel, next to King . It (the organism) can reproduce through—as—information . (But only certain information—i.e., Acts.
Burroughs posits an information virus (or virus
Once having entered the person's brain via the optic nerve it now modulates brain functioning so that the person subliminally transduces messages (including instructions) and hence is a cell
The reader of Tears reads the dream (he's been absorbing Acts without knowing it—the verbal analog of the brain) which subconsciously is familiar and remembered; this sets him up, and as soon, then, as he sees Felix the plasma travels down his optic nerve as an electric pulse and it's done, it can now replicate into the total microform of the brain, as the reader reads on getting the rest of the Acts
[ 38:55] Whatever the Bible may say, the Paraclete (and clearly Zebra is the Paraclete: the proof is [1] the Acts
But it is not just an inscrutable miraculous mysterious being; I saw it using methods—albeit beyond the power of the mechanistic physics which control us . (Lower realm powers .) For example (and this is the main thrust of my theory) it uses an interface to link it to the physical (history) world, a real aggregate of humans, processes and objects which it organizes into the actual entity I call the Brain . To travel, it rides
[ 38:59] This forces me to reconsider the discarding and annexing process by the brain in favor of a proliferation theory: once you receive a bit of Zebra into you, you are in the brain (i.e., for good). So the cloud of fruitflies model breaks down in favor of the model of a growing brain which acquires but does not simultaneously discard . Yet it is a swarm.
That it could replicate itself, in humans (i.e., via), as a verbal plasma—it looked, on the page of Tears like a section of chromosomes under an electron microscope; what I saw was its seed germ
No—rather, evidently Zebra had replicated itself in me at some earlier date; in writing Tears I was under its jurisdiction . This could have occurred when I took communion, or, as a child, read something that was information plasma
[ 38:61] What is hard for us to grasp is how a single bit (like Felix/King in Tears) can replicate the entire body of information, just as an entire human can be reconstructed from a single cell . So all the transmitter has to do is get that living-info bit into you, and then it grows . Christ discusses this as the grains of wheat falling on various kinds of soil . The mustard seed, too, and the pearl of great price—many parables relate this concept . Firebright microcomputer, this nucleus of living info . It creates a bicameral mind (the inward light or voice—which I call the AI
This description totally agrees with John vis-à-vis what the Paraclete does (and knows).
As I now conceive it (to recap), the initial living-info bit must grow to the totality for the blitz to occur: the quantum leap inside the person's head, such as I began to experience in 2-74, which is a thresholding into consciousness: the coming to life of the Christ psyche in microform, like a hologram bit.
( v. supra). The person is no longer an individual driven by subrational forces, but part of the Swarm of Bees
What I saw in 3-74—and remember in 2-74—was the real world: the landscape of Acts reduced
[ 38:68] The brain is one multiperson ajna chakra, which one day as a unitary totality will open, discerning and annihilating (the 3rd eye of Shiva). (Herdsman of the souls .) All who participate in it will then see as I saw; they will be inside the eye; everything outside will be blasted ,
[ 38:72] Ah! In Ubik locating the Ubik messages in cheap commercials was absolutely right on . I couldn't have guessed
Tears, then, is the informational interface or nexus between our actual world of 1974 and Acts . The reader lives in ➊ and reads ➋, thus absorbing it; but this leads him inexorably to Acts ,
Tears is a doorway, not a world in itself . As you read it you pass across to the world of Acts onion ring
In other words, to restore Acts, Tears is necessary as an interface . Tears is therefore an instrument (probably just one of many) of restoring the brain, because Acts
[ 38:88] Bill Sarill64 points out that my description of the magnet imposing absolute sameness everywhere is a description of entropy, of thermal death of the universe . Conversely, the flash point (critical mass) explosion of the brain would be the hoped for negentropic Big Bang
Thus, at the deepest level, the brain represents form, and the BIP represents entropy . This realization, due to Bill Sarill, is monumental . It goes beyond
I do not believe it is God (the creator). It is something new, which came into existence at a certain time (c. A.D. 45, Acts
[ 38:95] KW offers the brilliant theory that the brain was using me as a self-monitoring circuit to examine the degree of information degradation along the linear time axis, and therefore could not allow me to be sacrificed in 3-74 . Apparently some rectification of the signal (i.e., history) had to be made, and I was lucky enough to be included in that rectification . KW explained to me how very good amplifiers monitor their own output to see if it conforms to what they are receiving from the pre-amp; this is a typical example of electronic homeostasis . So the brain transmitted back a text (Acts
Stated this way, I think the latter . Reality (USA 1974) is hallucination, and can be voided through faith—whereupon the absolute time and place (Acts
I think this 3 level structure is the one we have vis-à-vis Christianity . A secret within a secret A, Ā, A . Precious Artifact
You have this: Q :
re Christianity: A: Yes.
This is in terms of a 2-value system (A or Ā
A becomes Ā by reversal . Then Ā is reversed, not restoring A, but something else . A what? How does it differ from A, if at all? Answer: call it A′ . I say A′
I must have gone across in 3-74 and stayed for a while and then returned . Okay—in track A I died, but then the revision was superimposed as orthogonal newness: negentropy imposed on a running-down, ossifying state of things . Yes, that's what was going on: ossification, entropy, the imperial
I take it that Tears showed too high a degradation-of-information factor, or in some way indicated an inordinate fossil or ossified quality, or pointed to it (in some way conveyed it, I'm not sure the Acts Acts material surfaced—its manifesting itself would indicate a weak spot—a revelation of too much entropy . In that case, a highly (adequately) vital, viable space-time segment could resist the Acts material; for the Acts material to surface—show through—first in Tears and then four years later, the actual world of Acts
This is not supposed to happen . The brain wishes to maintain the fiction of linear time—i.e., that it was at that time 1974 . Then there was a dysfunction and rectification . The release of Tears with its Acts hologram is the brain as body of psyche . Its actual evolving corpus—primarily one of living sentient information—was weakening—dying (just one spirit located at one time and place). It's like a Barium or Gallium or other radioactive or dye test . The brain must have either been running (1) a routine test; (2) a constant test; (3) or a test based on suspicion of the USA 1974 spot in the corpus . In any case the Acts material in Tears was a self-signal to the psyche which brought a quick—im mediate—response of rectification: the orthogonal imposition of newness (from Form I) onto the entropic, weak or ossified imperial
It's all certainly for a benign purpose: the brain is negentropic, the life of the universe ,
Anyhow, despite the deception
[ 18:17] A curious idea occurs to me: in Tears the world of Acts has been fundamentally and severely transmuted into a rigid-as-iron prism/tyranny . Expressed as info (with Acts as the message) this is a verbal degrading analogous to the world—degrading by the Nixon tyranny (police state nearing outright slavery). So—the Acts material is severely degraded: specifically into an ossified form (the BIP). And the brain, self-monitoring in terms of itself qua info, detects the BIP (ossified) quality, assesses it correctly as a moribund or entropic state, and acts to revitalize (i.e., to free) the spot (i.e., space-time) involved . Ah! It's as if the brain transmitted Acts through my head, and grave BIP aspects showed up in the print-out: accurate representation of our actual political, social conditions . Thus the brain experiences our world as it is: as information . I had mistakenly thought—supra—that the Acts material came through intact, but in fact it is heat death distributed into the Tears BIP ossification, which, as Bill Sarill pointed out, is a form of entropy! So if BIP equals entropy, there is severe degrading of the Acts
My mind in 1970 was utilized as a core or representative situation-registering microcosm component, as if the macro political-sociological USA as historic matrix was correctly reproduced in me—so a known message (Acts
On p. 13, supra,68 I totally missed the point (nature) of how—and how much! —the Acts message was degraded as an input signal/message . What did I expect: the word Gubble? Here is a verbal degrading delineating exactly how the situation had deteriorated; i.e., it was not just noise on the line but specific, meaningful recontouring, and this condition, called imperial uniformity by KW and me, is entropy, which for the brain means a literal (but localized) death of a part of itself—and so it took immediate steps to rectify the situation by breaking the warp-factor of the complex
What I foresaw in Tears was the running-down of our world, the congealing . Tears, as a verbal message, was a thought by the brain itself, passing through me as a neural Acts
Boy, was it ever changed in a sinister—and alarming—way! So what I call the
Q: But what about the Acts
Schizophrenia with religious and paranoid coloring—of the ecstatic type . * A sense of the cosmic —vast mystical forces, with me in the center (sic). Like a titanic psychedelic drug trip . I was probably secreting a mescaline-like autotoxic substance not well understood . I had little if any romance (i.e., adventure) in my life in those days ('74), and in '70 Nancy's leaving had broken me—i.e., at the time of my '70 mescaline
My mind monitors my missile anamnesis as a clue to prior psychosis . I need romance (adventure) in my life . The AI voice is a special kind of hallucination: one of wish-fulfillment and need, due to loneliness: emotional starvation and grief and ill-use . I just can't endure life without that lovely voice guiding me, so I regress to a level (atavistic, in historical terms) at which such a bicameral experience (like in Scanner) can take place . The AI voice is my imaginary playmate, my sister, evolved out of my childhood Bill and Nell fantasies . I did not regress to my own childhood only, but back along the platonic form-axis ,
My psychosis put me in touch with das ewige weiblichkeit 71 in me, * and for that I will always be grateful; it means I will never really be alone again: whenever I really need her, I will sense her presence and hear her voice (i.e., St. Sophia). At the center of psychosis I encountered her: beautiful and kind and, most of all, wise, and through that wisdom, accompanying and leading me through the underworld, through the Bardo Thödol journey to rebirth—she, the embodiment of intelligence: Pallos Athena herself . So at the core of a shattered mind and life lies this equicenter—omphalos—of harmonie and calm . I love her, and she is my guide: the second comforter and advocate promised by Jesus...as Luther said ,
[ 18:35] This is the quintessential form of
The basis of it all is a game for children which consists of a show in which the most subtle teaching takes place, as if to see if we can detect illusion . I view it all epistemologically, but it could be viewed morally or esthetically, etc . My criterion is real vs. irreal . What is actually there, and just where is it? I say it's mainly in our heads, but an inner-outer analog system exists which locks us into world, a push-pull feedback loop, the inner projecting onto the outer, and the outer (you, Brahman) cunningly simulating each projection and generating it back in enriched synchronization, so no thinness appears: the outer is not just a mirror but an amplifying mirror or structure—generator . In other words, Atman within projects the bare bones of a particular aspect of world onto the omni-faceted matrix; and you as outer Brahman supply details which fill in the picture, which you generate back; you enhance (as Brahman the reality-world-generator) what each Atman projects—it's like Joint and the soft drink stand that turns out to be just the word: Soft drink stand
But I broke the push-pull in 2-74 when I saw the fish; in 3-74 because of my belief I projected Rome c. A.D. 45 and you obligingly articulated it—in the midst of a USA 1974 hologram—a palpable absurdity . As Thomas I may have very—totally sincerely—projected the initial bare bones aspect, but I (my interior Atman) did not project all that I saw of Rome c. A.D. 45; you obligingly augmented the projection ➋ and generated that augmentation back, and the push-pull began, so we got such details as primitive Christian sacraments and the Koine, fear of the Romans, etc .; and then the whole world-aspect (i.e., one space, one time) system broke down, and the Dibba Cakkhu eye opened and I saw the unitary revolving sphere which grows and incorporates over 1,000's of years . No aspect-world was presented to me at that point . I saw what I call Zebra, and at last (recently) recognized it as a giant brain interfaced which utilizes us as stations, and which consists of living information (cf . Xenophanes). Even more recently I see the brain as a vast phagocyte, and its enemy a pathenogin . But that may be a graphic analogy only . What I am sure of is that Parmenides was correct . You give us not just an illusory phenomenal world, but a whole lot of them in space and time, as many as we initiate (which again is you in us, initiating these worlds). You are a world-creator God; you do not just think but
The breakdown in my push-pull system in 2-74 temporarily set another world and another self into generation . But finally the situation restabilized as it had been before; however I was now in dialog with a you it
So it follows principles established in subsets we're familiar with: complexity is inversely proportional to frequency . As phagocyte it may not only be engulfing the pathenogin but using it as a stockpile of parts; the two [entities] will finally become one, and the dialectic will end (successfully). (This certainly resembles Timaeus: Noös at work
