[ 15:51] God is then seen as a higher, sentient order (with world as blind lower order which the higher can overrule) to which man can aspire . By and large the world separates man from God; via theophany man can experience God at places and/or times in which God (Mind) melts
[ 15:52] Voice :
An astronomical term :
The implication of the perturbations
What is conveyed by the term field reality field takes it out of the more conventional astronomical concepts of bodies and directs us to Einstein's work and quantum mechanics . The basic definition of field, however, fits with a notion of reality as, so to speak, a subform of totality, not totality itself . Reality is a field out of fields plural . So we are talking about—well, as I said, there are two possibilities: (1) as yet undiscovered bodies in the reality field or (and I favor the second, because of the inclusion of the term field) (2) something outside [the] reality [field]. You could not have stated this if field had been omitted.
makes no sense, in view of the customary meaning of reality field been left off, it would have to be
Really, the concept reality fields means something quite different from reality, which is the all-in-all . The voice's sentence is quite technical and quite precise and complete . I am sure that something outside the reality field is pointed to, and reality is reduced to a field among fields plural . We are getting a statement here by an entity which can look down into reality as a subspecies of the totality . I get a distinct impression of a web, a sort of—well, consider the definition of field .) What we call reality is a fucking field . Not just a field but a field . When we talk about reality this is what we're talking about: a field—and now the significance of perturbations
[ 15:60] If we humans are part of the generated reality field, and in a certain sense it is not real, then in that same sense we are not real (vide The Electric Ant
[ 15:83] Real time has to do with a sacred ritual-process . The progression of that real process was halted by a crime, of which we have received an incomplete report . The reintroduction into the world and its affairs of the divine woman is the substance of the matter . But in the Bible no mention is made of the dead—and resurrected—divine woman . The construct moving retrograde has the purpose built into it of restoring that woman, who is nothing less than God's holy wisdom . The ossified matrix of the NT [New Testament] must be melted . Tears narrates the revision which will come to be . Eventually, the narrative in Tears will be the correct one, as the construct successfully accomplishes its work . Tears contains the Logos or form to be imposed . It is its punched tape, à la
[ 15:85] In The Morning of the Magicians it's conjectured that if superhumans (mutants, etc .) live among us undetected they would use such things—carriers—as popular novels (and I suppose music and films) to communicate —keep in touch—with one another . Whether such superhuman mutants
Why would they make good vehicles? (1) They are unlike TV and newspapers, international . What else is? (2) Exact wording could be employed . (3) Detection of the cryptemorphosis material would be difficult because there are so many pop novels, films and songs . (4) Ah—here's a good reason: the receivers (proper ones) of the info could not be discerned ➊ because anyone can and does hear, read pop culture stuff . Heavy shit might fall on the author by the intelligence people—an effort to find out all about him and who he's mixed up with—in fact that'd be the only recourse: investigating the author . The trail would lead back to him, not to the receivers . Maybe he would know whom it was for . So let's see what group (s) he belongs to (in interception of direct messages, they'd be able to pinpoint the receivers, which is what it's all about, especially if the author consciously knew nothing but merely dutifully wrote down his dreams
So it would be ideal, then, if the author knew nothing, was subliminally cued . Of course, if/when the heavy shit came down on him, if the mutants
[ 15:100] What if the proto-story in Tears is a sort of living DNA? That guides an entelechy through its growth steps? Are we the intended entelechy? Bateson's55 immanent mind that narrates information to each living entity...Tears—the latent story therein—shows bench marks
[ 15:114] The Voice :
[ 15:116] Voice :
Some kind of nonlinear onion time is represented, as hinted at in Ubik, in which entropy allowed former layers to be exposed, much to everyone's surprise . Ubik presented the paste-up
There is much in common between the cosmology of Ubik and my lamination
Is Zebra Ubik, the anti-entropic energy/mind/word? Which narrates? And whose story is the growth of the organism? (
Then no single layer can be read, lacking the one below and above it . In our lives we track the circumference which means we experience only one layer . We can't read it orthogonally; we're part of the mechanism and not above it . But a written statement of the narrative could fall into our hands, or we could hear it, etc . This would be the DNA
[ 15:133] My writing is salvific in terms of this one road—one dharma of several, the dharma of knowledge . An epistemological path, not a moral path, is put forth (not
). This is Gnostic, not pious . But the act—the crucial act of balking was, for me, moral . It develops out of an awareness of the counterfeit: viz :
[ 15:141] I rather suspect that my transfer of assent in 2-74 was itself programmed and not truly an unanticipated malfunction . I was programmed to discover I was programmed . And in a very dramatic way—specifically one which brought me to a confirmation of the epistemological doubts I'd expressed in 27 years of writing . I certainly hesitate to claim I did it . My will—no . Accident—possibly . YHWH's will—very likely . Best to assume a
[ 16:6] Voice :
I deduce from this, then, that the Rome c. A.D. 45 world is real (which is why it appears in Tears) and USA 1974 is an alibi to conceal it . The alibi KW and I are looking for is the very world we seem to be in, and the true story is Acts.
( meaning me). Then Rome A.D. 45 (Acts
[ 16:10] KW spoke of sabotage versus malfunction, an issue which I dismissed . But then the voice called the USA 1974 world an alibi world expendable . Delmak-O
God, all my this is illusion
And then someone gets a glimpse . (As in
Is this a battle for his allegiance? World against world, mind against mind? The voice last night scathingly referred to USA 1974 and the corresponding PKD personality as
Axiom: masks do not resemble the visages concealed by them . If we know that world is a mask of God, the problem of evil (undeserved suffering) is somewhat answered . But why must God mask himself? Answer: man must solve the moral and epistemological puzzles presented to him by world in order to come to life (become disjunctive from what is not-him). He can join the world or he can repudiate it . This is a very serious game, this guessing game . It only serves its purpose if man knows relatively little about what is going on . E.g., if he knows he will be rewarded for balking he will balk in order to obtain the reward—the test will be contaminated . He must balk with no knowledge of reward; in fact he knows he will be punished (by world, the BIP). So
God, I have broken myself in this pursuit over 27 years . Critics compare my malignant false worlds to metastasizing cancer . I demand that deity appear or somehow put its stamp on world before I can accept it as anything but a diabolic counterfeit interpolation . We have been deceived for thousands of years . The Neoplatonist such as Plotinus knew of two realms . The Essenes (v. Josephus) report a lower realm of feverish unconsciousness, the poisoned, intoxicated soul.
Like I do in my stories and novels (e.g., Stigmata and Precious Artifact
I created one world among many and entered it and hid myself in it . But the police detected me—the non-terran police—and tried to fake me out with the Xerox missive . But I knew it was coming—as soon as Tears appeared they would be sure about me . And I recovered my memory and identity and powers and dealt with it properly, and paid them back . My organization helped me—it set off my memories a month in advance . I saw my creator—my creator, protecting me . I am hiding here, under his protection . The network voice—she talks to me . I am patched in to the network, so I am not alone . Meanwhile, my creator (Zebra
I learned this from Precious Artifact . I am a mad ex world-generator, now confined . But still periodically mad . I can't die . I am countless reborn-metamorphosed . I know the truth about the worlds I have made . That they're not real—I know about dokos, simulations which will pass any test . They are not fantasy, and they are only illusion to those who take them as real . They are skillful forgeries which will pass inspection . They are indeed like metastasizing cancers.
It is found in my taco stand
Is it all just foolishness? My writing has to be dismissed (including the Acts and NT material in Tears and the exculpation
Because everything is interwoven, it either all stands or it falls . Such stories as Precious Artifact Electric Ant Retreat Syndrome
( 2) The month that Tears was released, I saw a Golden Fish sign and asked what it was . I was told it was a sign
( 3) One month later amid various unusual subjective sensations, I experienced 1st century A.D. Rome as present and believed myself to be an illegal secret Christian, with code signs and sacraments such as I later learned were used at that time . I also dreamed foreign words all of which turned out to be the koine Greek used at that place and time, although I did not know this . I believed that Christ had just died and would soon return . I felt great elation . I was shown the word Felix in Tears and understood it was not a name but a key code . I did not know what it meant . However I looked it up and it means happy prosperous.
( 4) When I described Tears to my priest he said that a scene was very like a scene in Acts, which I had never read . I then read Acts and found many elements common to Tears . After four years of studying Tears I felt I had fully extracted a stegenographic message from it . Tears was in fact set in 1st century A.D. Rome . I can prove it re the Acts
Unexplained are: If I did not recognize the Acts
The questions in paragraph one are more astute than first appears . The questions—one question actually—is formally phrased as :
( The world of Tears is—cupola for equals—1st century A.D. Rome . When I saw 1st century A.D. Rome I recognized it, call it y. I could upon seeing y recognize and identify it . Y is the world of Tears . I wrote Tears . When I wrote it and repeatedly rewrote it and later repeatedly read it, I saw nothing in it that suggested y to me . But I later demonstrated an ability to recognize and identify y when I saw it . There is a disruption in the continuity of pattern recognition and identification; there is an ellipsis in—not logic, which is not involved—but something deeper . Person one [myself] both recognizes pattern y and does not . I.e., he is familiar with 1st century A.D. Rome and its customs and is not . He dreams koine Greek words but does not [1] know what they mean; or [2] that they are the koine; or [3] that the koine was the lingua franca of 1st century A.D. Rome—that Acts ,
Question: does the stegenographic message provide any clue to the abreactive personality? Answer: the message is the kerygma
Conclusion: the person has a rich fantasy world . He has dissociated personalities and experiences . (Ever since an auto accident he has complained of periodic amnesia .) The hidden message in the novel and the remembering ancient Rome
Fuck . If they couldn't get us to write serious things, they solved the problem by decreeing that what we were writing was serious . Taking a pop form as serious is what you do if it won't go away . It's a clever tactic . They welcome you in—look at Lem's 1,000-page essay . This is how the BIP handles it if they can't flat out crush it . Next thing, they get you to submit your S-F writing to them to criticize . Structured criticism to edit out the trash elements
Like I say in Scanner, our punishment for playing was too great . And my last sentence is ,
( I got that from knowing what felix
I showed the unfair punishment for playing . Scanner is a study of what the BIP does to you (punishes you) and what for (playing, not growing up, not toiling
Knowing what I know now after 4 years of exegesis re Tears what I'd write on the basis of it would be Scanner . How do you explain that? Scanner logically follows Tears if you know what Tears is really about . Play is one of the antiphonal themes in Scanner . Play and punishment . What an insight! You play—and are punished and far too severely; as I say ,
