The authority figure in charge of the vessel is the psychopomp, the guide of the souls who leads them across (the Styx, etc .) to the Other Side . Charon is very strict . The thread, which may be Arachne's or Ariadne's, must not be broken . If it is Ariadne's, then the trident is the sword she gave to Theseus along with the thread to guide him out of the Labyrinth; if he broke it, his life was over . (If the trident is that of Poseidon then it is evident where we are in the dream: I quote from Gods and Heroes of the Greeks, p. 12 :
) Both Poseidon and Hades appear then in the dream of the elevator, which is far down in the
and the trident . I see three myths right there, with the trident sticking into the
and then the guide who recites verse indicates that we are in the presence of prophecy, of an oracle . Also, the spaghetti tells us we're in that part of the world . Plus the olive-colored skin and eyes of the cop.
I think I mentioned a more recent dream about double domed men with rather golden skin—huge egg-shaped craniums, very fierce and formidable and decisive, with an enormous yearbook type book
In a frenzy of hysteria I told Tessa that I believed that these were not people I was seeing . Not people like us talking to me in my sleep and healing and educating me, but another race entirely (you know, like the saucer people talk about :
These last experiences at night, first the rhymed couplet about
is a very complex but very effective way of reassuring me . The voice was quiet and somewhat motherly, and familiar . (In the dream I thought it was Olivia Newton-John, and who could be scared of her?) Also, my associations which have filtered through after absorbing the couplet are in a similar vein.
is what your mama says to you before you and the other little children sit down around her in a circle, at night before you go to bed, to hear the story she is going to tell you; it suggests safety and also the peace and quiet, the alpha state you get into, before she starts her soothing tale . And of course it's soothing, dummy, because you're going to bed and no mama would tell you anything scary before you went to bed . Another association that comes to me is that you, as that little child about to hear the soothing tale, put your slippers on—not to walk anywhere; slippers aren't for walking—but to keep your feet warm, which could be deciphered as ,
which again deciphered means ,
which itself is a metaphor for
Yesterday I asked Tessa what she thought was going on.
All encounters in the phenomenological world (in time and space) are exterior encounters, with constructs of our own mind—here and anywhere else we go . To experience truly, genuinely to encounter any other living entity in itself, one would have to be in it, and have it in one . This would be an interior experience; one would see nothing outside, no object, but suddenly one would experience all reality through the vision of the Other, as if seeing out through its eyes . One would share and inhabit its world, possess its perspective; at the same time the Other would possess what one had as a worldview . This might be close to a sort of energy symbiosis, an exchange of plasmas . One would not see the Other; one would see as the Other . Not possess it but possess its world . And this would not be so much an
but both would share a world made up from both previous separate worlds . A superimposition, greater than either had possessed: a total sharing within, and a to tal shared view of what lies outside . This sudden, double, superimposed, simultaneous view would be experienced as gaining an additional depth: as if adding one more spatial dimension . Much as a flatlander acquiring three-dimensional space . Time, too, would be experienced differently; one could see ahead, in all temporal directions . Two separate mono views when blended become a stereo view . Both entities, surprised by the heightened perception, would probably attribute it to the other's ability, not realizing he himself supplied half.
each would think, astonished.
Plato once expressed an idea, probably metaphoric, that each of us is really only one half of a four legged four armed organism; somehow long ago we got split apart and we're always searching for our missing other half . * This usually is construed as a man searching for his female mate; however, suppose the Great Builder has fashioned us humans here, each of us, as one half of a total organism the other half of which is not a human being but something totally different—maybe with no physical body at all, but a sort of energy plasma which fits over or is poured into
It's interesting that Jesus spoke of being born again as being
which is from two sources; two coming together, in contrast to being
Like Beethoven, the Creator is a joiner; not of organizations but of sections assembled separately in different places and then somehow brought together; the places are our category space, then, when brought together, time.
Tom Disch came back a couple of weeks ago and I told him about it . He suggested perhaps it was Elijah who had possessed me, and so I read up on Elijah; that explanation fits as well as any other, and so I ran with that until last night when, in falling asleep, I thought the words poros krater ,
What perhaps is involved here is time travel . The ability by someone, or several someones, far back in the past (circa 600 B.C .) to travel forward through to our period, by large leaps, surfacing in one or more of us.... In February I had major oral surgery, and was home recovering, still under the influence of the sodium pentothal, and in severe pain . Tessa phoned the oral surgeon and he phoned a pharmacy to send out a pain killer . The doorbell rang and I went, and there stood this girl with black, black hair and large eyes very lovely and intense; I stood staring at her, amazed, also confused, thinking I'd never seen such a beautiful girl, and why was she standing there? She handed me the package of medication, and I tried to think what to say to her; I noticed then, a fascinating gold necklace around her neck and I said ,
just, you see, to find something to say to hold her there . The girl indicated the major figure in it, which was a fish.
she said, and then departed . Soon thereafter the dazzling shower of colored graphics descended over me in the night, and you know the rest . During the first weeks while the spirit was within me in full force I saw, among all the other insights I developed, that there are external signals which act on us as disinhibiting stimuli, which cause a vast drop in GABA fluid in the brain, releasing (intentionally, as with the little creatures) major engramming . Evidently this is what the fish sign did to me . In fact I read in one article on brain function that when inhibiting GABA fluid drops quite a bit—which is when an external signal causes major disinhibition to take place—the person experiences
By the way—I've now found the section in Virgil's Aeneid which so many of my early dreams pointed to: it is Book Six . Also I've found that a number of my dreams are visions of Canto XXVIII of Dante's Purgatorio Immanent Mind
Well, Claudia, I will tell you what I think They are telling me via graphic visions and written and audio material . Enclosed you will find three pages I already wrote (I hope I didn't send them to you already), but recently I came across this Fourth Eclogue
When I was possessed back in March it was justice which I first sought out everywhere, which was most important to me . I think that the Cumaean sibyl's prophecy has not been fulfilled . (Virgil's Eclogue is based on an actual prophesy which she made slightly before the Christian Era .) My dreams
I get very frustrated writing to you about this because I have so much to say and can't spit it out . Papers slide off my desk; books I'm quoting from fall shut; I type wrong letters entirely . I am so fucking excited, keyed up, high on all this, and terribly impatient, which is not cool—impatient to find people to tell this to, the Good News, so to speak . Claudia, an ancient promise made to us, made thousands of years ago, is now being kept . Who made it I don't know, but it was made . He or they would come back eventually, and they fucking have, Claudia, they fucking have!!! I know it . Again and again in unmistakable ways they have assured me of this, and have in addition shown me glimpses of what we can expect . That which is rightfully ours, which was taken away, will be returned . They will see to that . As Paul called it, the
Kurt Weill and Maxwell Anderson wrote ,
In the visions of every Pythagorean in history (Euripides in The Bacchae, in Wordsworth's ode ,
The mystery cults kept their purpose and techniques secret until Jesus so-to-speak stole it and made it available for everyone—same as what's his name did with fire . And paid the ultimate price . However, as Jesus remarked ,
21 meaning that he was successful; what was until then available only to a few life-long esoteric students of the cults we can all have . We didn't even know about it until then; Paul is not being vague in his speech when he says ,
etc.22 He means it literally; he told them all what up to then was indeed a sacred secret, guarded by the mystery cults, the secret that (1) you can be reborn (which is not the same as being immortal; it means you must die as you are and then after that you are again alive, but different and permanent), and (2) how this can be achieved, or more precisely, how it was achieved . No more valuable secret was even stolen and released to the general public than that . I wouldn't presume to try to add to or modify Paul's own explanation of all of this, or John's, but let me say that what happened to me in March is exactly that
The valuable aspect of the external catalyst is that it keeps the process within the control of who it is who controls these things; it isn't going to simply occur at a random time for no reason at all . The universal mind dispatches a Mediator—which is what Christ is called, correctly—to trigger it off; or anyhow the fish sign or any Logos triggering agent . Thereby it, the universal mind, can hold the process until it wishes it to take place, which is why the Protestant Reformers stressed the power of God's grace as being the sole power which could redeem us rather than good works . The act must be done by God alone, not by us . These are old-fashioned terms for a very mysterious process and event; they did the best they could in explaining it.
( which is jargon for fucked up, deranged, and half blind),
I'm not sure you have to have that trust . I think what you have to come to is the last few frames of the long reel of film which was your firstborn ego or personality or consciousness, which is what I did . Rationally, at least according to the impaired rationality we have, it would seem evident that when the final frame is gone, only the void would remain; however, the void is I guess God Himself, the Brahmin; He fills it up . We have an incorrect idea of the nature of the void, and an equally incorrect one as to the nature of objects—which are only phenomena, constructs our brain makes out of sense impressions.
Psychologically, this mental transformation is the radical combining (not reconciliation but combining) of opposites . From then on everything is understood in terms not of
If you remember my mentioning it, Claudia, when this first hit me in March I looked around and saw Rome! Rome everywhere! Power and force, stone walls, iron bars—just what Mumford expresses above . That I saw this in an instant (
) is and was not of my doing; it didn't come out of my mind, my mental processes; it wasn't a concept or even an awareness internally: I perceived it . I saw it . I pierced the veil, so to speak, and saw my society exactly as it is...which is, as Mumford expresses, like Rome was . What puzzled me was, since I knew intellectually that Rome was a city in Italy and an empire and republic back before Christ, then where was I, in Fullerton or back there, now or back then? Again, the [question is
and the answer is ,
In Mumford's sense, Rome is a paradigm . I was so to speak taken up on the mountain, a metaphor in itself, and shown . See? the Spirit said.
There is no doubt in my mind now that my vision
Time, the future, contains in it all the events which are going to occur . Therefore when time enters a person as energy, and acting as noös to him, it brings with it in potentium all that will happen to him, like a window shade unrolling to display an unfolding pattern . Events in the future pop into being, into actualization, the present, but until they do, they are not truly real—not yet actualized—but there in an encoded form, like the grooves of an LP before the needle reaches it; the only music
This is why we experience déjà vu . We have somehow caught a glimpse now and then of the script unrolling in our head—caught a glimpse in advance, so we feel
It contains within it thousands of years of slumbering world; the connective unconscious
Haggia Sophia is about to be reborn . She was not acceptable in the past.
It has been done . They killed the Savior almost 2,000 years ago; only to find his face looking out of each person, finally, everywhere . (
The grain of wheat, unless it is planted in the furrow—the grave—leads only its solitary life; but if it is sown, it grows again in splendor.
In regard to the question ,
the answer is, Everywhere ,
I am that root . And the bright morning star . At the beginning and at the end: to start things off (as Creator) and to direct them along the way (as Logos) and to collect—receive them—at the end, as Holy Spirit . I am.
