Janet was trying in a baffled way to pick up the crumbs she had dropped; Whileawayans don't eat crunchables . I left her and floated up to the whatnot, on which were perched two biscuit-china birds, beak twined in beak, a cut-glass salt dish, a small, wooden Mexican hat, a miniature silver basket, and a terracotta ashtray shaped realistically like a camel . Laur looked up for a moment, preternaturally hard and composed . I am a spirit, remember . She said: What? You said—?
She studied her plate . She drew a design on it with her finger . Nothing ,
Laura frowned . I thought she might wring her hands but no such luck . She went back to the desk and picked up something else, which she handed to Miss Evason . I knew enough to recognize mathematics, that's all . She tried to stare Janet down . Janet followed a few lines, smiled thoughtfully, then came to a hitch . Something wrong . Your teacher—
said perspicacious Laur . Look, Goddamn, What? A man.
A really extraordinary expression, what they mean by calling someone's face a study— she can't know that I know that she doesn't know that I know! — crossed Janet's face and she said ,
by which you can tell that she didn't believe a word of it . She didn't say, Of course ,
I'm a victim of penis envy (said Laura) so I can't ever be happy or lead a normal life . My mother worked as a librarian when I was little and that's not feminine . She thinks it's deformed me . The other day a man came up to me in the bus and called me sweetie and said ,
I just stared at him . But he wouldn't go away until I smiled, so finally I did . Everyone was laughing . I tried once, you know, went to a dance all dressed up, but I felt like such a fool . Everyone kept making encouraging remarks about my looks as if they were afraid I'd cross back over the line again; I was trying, you know, I was proving their way of life was right, and they were terrified I'd stop . When I was five I said ,
but that doesn't work, possibly because other people don't honor the resolve . Last year I finally gave up and told my mother I didn't want to be a girl but she said Oh no, being a girl is wonderful . Why? Because you can wear pretty clothes and you don't have to do anything; the men will do it for you . She said that instead of conquering Everest, I could conquer the conqueror of Everest and while he had to go climb the mountain, I could stay home in lazy comfort listening to the radio and eating chocolates . She was upset, I suppose, but you can't imbibe someone's success by fucking them . Then she said that in addition to that (the pretty clothes and so forth) there is a mystical fulfillment in marriage and children that nobody who hasn't done it could ever know.
she said, looking mysterious . As if my father didn't have me, too . Or my birth was a beautiful experience et patati et patata, which doesn't quite jibe with the secular version we always get when she's talking about her ailments with her friends . When I was a little girl I used to think women were always sick . My father said ,
All those songs, what's-its-name, I enjoy being a girl, I'm so glad I'm female, I'm all dressed up, Love will make up for everything, tra-la-la . Where are the songs about how glad I am I'm a boy? Finding The Man . Keeping The Man . Not scaring The Man, building up The Man, pleasing The Man, interesting The Man, following The Man, soothing The Man, flattering The Man, deferring to The Man, changing your judgment for The Man, changing your decisions for The Man, polishing floors for The Man, being perpetually conscious of your appearance for The Man, being romantic for The Man, hinting to The Man, losing yourself in The Man.
Sob, sob . Whenever I act like a human being, they say ,
They say: of course you'll get married . They say: of course you're brilliant . They say: of course you'll get a Ph.D. and then sacrifice it to have babies . They say: if you don't, you're the one who'll have two jobs and you can make a go of it if you're exceptional, which very few women are, and if you find a very understanding man . As long as you don't make more money than he does . How do they expect me to live all this junk? I went to a Socialist—not really Socialist, you understand—camp for two summers; my parents say I must have gotten my crazy ideas there . Like hell I did . When I was thirteen my uncle wanted to kiss me and when I tried to ran away, everybody laughed . He pinned my arms and kissed me on the cheek; then he said ,
and everybody thought it was too ducky for words . Of course they blamed me—it's harmless, they said, you're only a child, he's paying you attention; you ought to be grateful . Everything's all right as long as he doesn't rape you . Women only have feelings; men have egos . The school psychologist told me I might not realize it, but I was living a very dangerous style of life that might in time lead to Lesbianism (ha! ha!) and I should try to look and act more feminine . I laughed until I cried . Then he said I must understand that femininity was a Good Thing, and although men's and women's functions in society were different, they had equal dignity . Separate but equal, right? Men make the decisions and women make the dinners . I expected him to start in about that mystically-wonderful-experience-which-no-man-can-know crap, but he didn't . Instead he took me to the window and showed me the expensive clothing stores across the way . Then he said ,
Boys don't like smart girls . Boys don't like aggressive girls . Unless they want to sit in the girls' laps, that is . I never met a man yet who wanted to make it with a female Genghis Khan . Either they try to dominate you, which is revolting, or they turn into babies . You might as well give up . Then I had a lady shrink who said it was my problem because I was the one who was trying to rock the boat and you can't expect them to change . So I suppose I'm the one who must change . Which is what my best friend said . Compromise, she said, answering her fiftieth phone call of the night.
There was a very nice boy once who said ,
And another with ,
And a third, Power! Nothing, said Janet . The soundless blows of the snowflakes against the glass . Laur sat down at Janet's feet (
) and explained an old fantasy of hers, snow and forests and knights and lovelorn maidens . She said that to anyone in love the house would instantly seem submarine, not a house on Earth but a house on Titan under the ammonia snow.
said Janet slowly, as she does sometimes, this being her favorite saying after, Now then ,
Snow still blew across the side of the house; the walls shook, muffled . Something was wrong with the television set, or with the distance control, or perhaps some defective appliance somewhere in suburban Anytown sent out uncontrolled signals that no television set could resist; for it turned itself on and gave us a television salad: Maureen trying unsuccessfully to slap John Wayne, a pretty girl with a drowned voice holding up a vaginal deodorant spray can, a house falling off the side of a mountain . Laur groaned aloud and hid her face against Janet's shoulder . Janet—I—held her, her odor flooding my skin, cold woman, grinning at my own desire because we are still trying to be good . Whileawayans, as has been said, love big asses.
Janet's rid of me . I sprang away and hung by one claw from the window curtain . Janet picked Laur up and deposited her on the floor, holding her tight through all the hysterics; she nuzzled Laur's ear and slipped off her own shoes . Laur came up out of it and threw the distance control at the television set, for the actress had been telling you to disinfect the little-mouse most girl part Oh!
They undressed in Janet's bedroom in the midst of her piles of material: books, magazines, sources of statistics, biographies, newspapers . The ghosts in the windowpanes undressed with them, for nobody could see in at the back of the house . Their dim and pretty selves . Janet pulled down the shades, lingering at each window and peering wistfully out into the dark, a shocking compound of familiar, friendly face and awful nude, while Laur climbed into Janet's bed . The bedspread had holes in it where the pink satin had worn thin . She shut her eyes.
said Janet, making the bed sway by getting into it . She held out her arms to the little girl; then she kissed her on the shoulder, the Russian way . (She's the wrong shape . )
said Laur and jumped out of bed to turn it off, but the air catches you on your bare skin before you get there and shocks you out of your senses; so she stopped, mother-naked, with the currents of air investigating between her legs . How lovely! said Janet . The room is pitilessly well lit . Laur got back into bed—"Move over"—and that awful sensation that you're not going to enjoy it after all.
Janet said mildly ,
and for a moment the preposterousness of it braced Laura Rose; there couldn't be any sex in it; so she turned off the overhead light and got back into bed . Janet had turned on a rose-shaded night lamp by the bed . Miss Evason grew out of the satin cover, an antique statue from the waist up with preternaturally living eyes; she said softly ,
indicating her round breasts, idealized by the dimness.
Miss Evason then pulled the covers up around her shoulders, sighed in self-control, and ordered Laur to turn over . Ugh! she said sincerely, when she began on the muscles of Laura's neck.
Laura tried to giggle . Miss Evason's voice, in the darkness, went on and on: about the last few weeks, about studying freshwater ponds on Whileaway, a hard, lean, sexless greyhound of a voice (Laur thought) which betrayed Laura in the end, Miss Evason stating with an odd, unserious chuckle, Try?
You are supposed to make them giggle, but Janet remembered how she herself had been at twelve, and oh it's so serious . She kissed Laura Rose lightly on the lips over and over again until Laura caught her head; in the dark it wasn't really so bad and Laura could imagine that she was nobody, or that Miss Evason was nobody, or that she was imagining it all . One nice thing to do is rub from the neck down to the tail, it renders the human body ductile and makes the muscles purr . Without knowing it, Laur was in over her head . She had learned from a boy friend how to kiss on top, but here there was lots of time and lots of other places ;
said Laura Rose in surprise ;
she whispered hurriedly to Laura Rose, laughing brokenly.
Miss Evason used the girl's ignorant hand, for Laura didn't know how to do it; Yes.
said Janet Evason Belin . girls brushing combing her long, silky hair, longing
No answer . She had picked up a stick and was taking the heads off weeds with it . It was one of the props for the computer receiver pole, knocked into the ground at one end and into the pole itself at the other . I had to ignore her being there or I couldn't have continued walking . Ahead were the farm's trees, breaking into the fields on the dim horizon like a headland or a cloud.
We reached the trees . (I remember, she's going to Lode-Pigro to put up buildings . Also, it'll be hotter here in July . It'll be intensely hot, probably not bearable .) The ground between them was carpeted in needles, speckled with moonlight . We dissolved fantastically into that extraordinary medium, like mermaids, like living stories; I couldn't see anything . There was the musky odor of dead needles, although the pollen itself is scentless . If I had told her ,
she might answer, You'll miss— Love me!
Under the Mashopi mountain range is a town called Wounded Knee and beyond this the agricultural plain of Green Bay . Janet could not have told you where the equivalents of these landmarks are in the here-and-now of our world and neither can I, the author . In the great terra-reforming convulsion of P.C . 400 the names themselves dissolved into the general mess of re-crystallization so that it would be impossible for any Whileawayan to tell you (if you were to ask) whether Mashopi was ever a city, or Wounded Knee a kind of bush, or whether or not Green Bay was ever a real bay . But if you go South from the Altiplano over the Mashopi Range, and from that land of snow, cold, thin air, risk, and glaciers, to the glider resort at Utica (from whence you may see mountain climbers setting off for Old Dirty-Skirts, who stands twenty-three thousand, nine hundred feet high) and from there to the monorail station at Wounded Knee, and if you take the monorail eight hundred miles into Green Bay and get off at a station I won't name, you'll be where Janet was when she had just turned seventeen . A Whileawayan who had come from the Mars training settlement in the Altiplano would have thought Green Bay was heaven; a hiker out of New Forest would have hated it . Janet had come by herself from an undersea farm on the continental shelf on the other side of the Altiplano where she had spent five wretched weeks setting up machinery in inaccessible crannies and squeaking whenever she talked (because of the helium). She had left her schoolmates there, crazy for space and altitude . It's not usual to be alone at that age . She had stayed at the hostel in Wounded Knee, where they gave her an old, unused cubicle from which she could work by induction in the fuel-alcohol distillery . People were nice, but it was a miserable and boring time . You are never so alone, schoolmates or not . You never feel so all-thumbs (Janet). She made her insistence on change formally, the line of work came through, goodbye everybody . She had left a violin in Wounded Knee with a friend who used to cantilever herself out of the third story of the hostel and eat snacks on the head of a public statue . Janet took the monorail at twenty-two o'clock and sulkily departed for a better personal world . There were four persons of Three-Quarters Dignity in the car, all quiet, all wretched with discontent . She opened her knapsack, wrapped herself in it, and slept . She woke in artificial light to find that the engineer had opened the louvers to let in April: magnolias were blooming in Green Bay . She played linear poker with an old woman from the Altiplano who beat her three times out of three . At dawn everyone was asleep and the lights winked out; she woke and watched the low hills form and re-form outside under an apple-green sky that turned, as she watched it, a slow, sulphurous yellow . It rained but they sped through it . At the station—which was nothing but the middle of a field—she borrowed a bicycle from the bicycle rack and flipped the toggle to indicate the place she wanted to go . It's a stout machine, with broad tires (compared to ours) and a receiver for registering radio beacons . She rode into the remaining night hung between the plantations of evergreens, then out into the sunrise again . There was an almighty cheeping and chirping, the result of one limb of the sun becoming visible over the horizon . She could see the inflated main dome of the house before she reached the second bicycle drop; somebody going West would pick it up in time and drop it near the monorail . She imagined great masses of sulky girls being requisitioned to ride bicycles coast-to-coast from regions that had a bicycle surplus to those crying out for bicycles . I imagined it, too . There was the sound of a machinist's ground-car off to the left—Janet grew up with that noise in her ears . Her bicycle was singing the musical tone that lets you know you're on course, a very lovely sound to hear over the empty fields . Sh!
We got out at forty-second street; and this is the way things really happen, in broad daylight, publicly, invisibly; we meandered past the shops . Jeannine saw a pair of stockings that she just had to have . We went in the store and the store owner bullied us . Outside again with her stockings (wrong size) she said ,
They were red fishnet hose, which she'll never dare wear . In the store window there was a zany-faced mannequin who roused my active hatred: painted long ago, now dusty and full of hair-fine cracks, a small shopkeeper's economy . Ah!
Jeannine shuddered . (Catch her taking off her shoes in public! )
said Miss Evason tolerantly . No ,
said Miss Evason.
Dig in . Winter's coming . When I—not the I I I
Janet, Jeannine, and Joanna arrived in the middle of a field at the end of an old-fashioned tarmac that stretched as a feeder to the nearest hovercraft highway . No winter, few roofs . Vittoria and Janet embraced and stood very still, as Aristophanes describes . They didn't yell or pound each other's shoulders, or kiss, or hug, or cry out, or jump up and down, or say
says Jeannine, the world falling about her ears, Man is a rhetorical convenience for human . Man woman.
1 . The Eternal Feminine leads us ever upward and on . (Guess who us
I mean, of course, that she told stories to me . Vittoria translates, speaking softly and precisely :
( Vittoria translated )
