; is this the same park? The pastoral kingdom?) sort of swam into focus, the way we S-F writers describe an alternate world as doing when that track has been tinkered with, maybe in the past; cf.
This world did not become it so much as it replaced this world: locked in briefly in place of this world, exactly as the Roman one did, except that with the Park I did not see it as the way our earth really is but rather an alternate Earth! Instead of what it actually is . I could be wrong about this though; both worlds (mysteriously glimpsed as fading alternatively into focus) could be what we S-F writers call
One could also assess the two mysteriously glimpsed worlds as two opposite mutually contradictory crypte morphoses
the I Ching gives me #46: ascending, promotion, and comments ,
Interestingly, this hex has to do—not with expansion—but with vertical ascent :
Also, it is pushing upward associated with effort . And :
It (the 5th line) says :
[ 24:42] But I sense something more: what I think of as a reweaving of me . Which evidently is an unusual event . God had moved backward through time from the far end (final end) of the universe to abolish the black iron prison and replace it with the palm tree garden; to do this he had (evidently) to reweave some of the fabric here, which meant some people, as well as events—indication of my personal reweaving was the adventitious not-me personality sent to replace mine . A new path along time—or through cause-and-effect possibilities, an alternate world was brought into existence, as if my—our—past had been tinkered with, and therefore our present was altered—hence the inner superimposition of personalities in me and the external superimposition of the two realities . Also my dream where I lived in a dark little old house like the one we looked at in Placentia . Like Commuter.
[ 24:66] Another model, our world as sphere in motion over squares
Showing our world now above the palm tree world, having passed 1974 our time, the moment of intervention . A penetration to the core, now, to the hidden real landscape below would reveal it, not the black iron prison . And there would now be a print-out re the second advent (i.e. ,
[ 24:83] The other thing I wanted to get down here is a topic old and dear to my heart: mimicry . Of Brahman is said :
What I saw in 3-74 was the Brahman stuff assuming the form of familiar objects; what I've always deduced from this is that all things, all objects are that divine stuff really, could we but see it—there would be no exceptions to this monism, ourselves included . But suddenly I remember that wonderful book on insect mimicry which Brunner sent me . Just because I saw (in 3-74) that many objects (walls, etc .) were actually alive, were actually it, does not actually mean that there is nothing but it . Take my story Colony
But anyhow the responding beforehand to signals and the vision of the Urwelt below the Dokos fits with this, in that I can posit the dokos not as counterfeit (good enough fakes to pass as real) but that what we are really seeing is it mimicking the many apparently real things of the phenomenal world . When I viewed this as this transubstantiation of essence with the accidents unchanged I could have said instead ,
Perhaps the transformation of and in me in 3-74 was when this mimicking plasma reached me and replaced me—although I appeared outwardly the same (i.e., my essence changed—a new self replaced the old) but my accidents stayed untouched . There are hints about this in my Vancouver speech: the inanimate (universe) becoming more and more alive . So what we have is not the dead replacing what is alive but a single organism replacing the inanimate progressively, although outwardly all seems to be as it has always been . Hence my inner awareness that contrary to everything I believe possible, myself, my me was covertly replaced by a greater other me
[ 24:87] Of all the views, theories, thoughts, insights so far, this mimicking entity one is the most exciting—it so accords with my experience, with what I saw—it admits to a severe distillation: I saw a mimicking entity, unitary, plasmatic, benign and all intelligent, the tutelary spirit of man singly and collectively, carrying with it the force of reality and essence, related to truth, justice and action (change), assimilating the unliving universe itself . When perceived it is perceived as it is, or not at all . How noble my quest! How noble the results! As it thrusts upward toward us it brings us news of what really is, displacing what merely seems . By its very nature it is deus absconditus, but hidden close by (
6). One can reread and reinterpret all Scripture from the vantage point of this understanding . Many puzzling aspects can herewith be newly comprehended—why no natural theology has ever been successful—why our knowledge of God must always be a revealed knowledge.
The workman is invisible within the workshop.
7 Immanent and gentle—one might say tenderly ,
[ 25:1] Following Mimic
It is interesting how we inadvertently (unknowingly) carry Zebra's messages for it, piggyback on our own . It's as if Zebra says ,
If parts of the universe are not Zebra, then Zebra is not identical to the universe, nor congruent with it; as I saw, it is fashioning itself out of the universe, using it as raw material . This is quite different from saying that is God
My big question remains: how faked
Yet, this God certainly can be described as
Zebra is a Creator God, but he is building a (new) earth out of or within the old, using it as a source of parts . Thus either the old is not his or at the very least he has become dissatisfied with it and is cannibalizing
What is odd is that although the object moved
Also, maybe what happened to me internally in 3-74 was that I was won
This growing corpus of Zebra is, like him, concealed by what I am tempted to call the same mimicking mechanism process by which Zebra conceals himself from us . It is Mundo Absconditus, but in our midst . Surely this is the
As KW put it :
Absolutely right . Even its messages are arrangements of what already exists . So its process of assembling was an arranging . But to produce what? To what effect? (i.e., how will it differ from unarranged?) Well, the definition of unarranged
Well, I actually know the result: I see now that what happened to me in 3-74 was that I got arranged
Random, chaotic, unawake, purposeless, destructive of itself, moving from complex and higher to simple and lower—in fact the whole damn thing is without sense or pattern or goal, heedless of everything it creates—i.e., blind . What we experience is a blend of the two: anomie and Kosmos (cf . Augustine) —so we perceive some purpose, but also random, chance, accidents . My structure, based on my revelation, resolves this paradox (along Plato's lines). The Kosmos part is called Divine Providence; my contribution is to see that it is growing in proportion to Not-P . Even more accurately, this Kosmos is experienced and expressed as
[ 25:9] I really am drawn to the idea of the kind stranger God intruding [down] into our screwed up chaotic world—the secret growth of Kosmos-Krasis within the vast Anomie, like its messages within (and smaller than) ours . That certainly is reason to equate this Krasis with Christ's forthcoming Kingdom, in which all is harmonie . No matter which explanation is correct, our salvation lies with the wisdom, krasis-building artificer; it is to him that we must turn in all cases . This does not make the creator evil, but blind deaf ,
[ 25:11] These messages: I just suddenly realized (remembered) that they serve to program us, subliminally, usually this way: a written message, one out of hundreds or even thousands which we see, is somehow caused to link with an internal (in one of us, whom Zebra selects) system—as if the system is engrammed by Zebra via the messages very deliberately, with the person consciously none the wiser . This possibly answers the question: whom are the messages for? Evidently not for the small conscious elite but anyone at any time . This possibly points to analogous internal entelechies presynchronized (from birth!) differing in different individuals so as to later link up . A good example if a big one for me was the gold fish necklace . Thus Zebra continually guides (controls?) us as we move (are moved) through the maze
[ 25:16] Zebra has invaded our world, replacing merciless determinism, with its own loving and living body, to de-program and save us . This is the great white fish giving us of its body, by which it suffers pain, that we might live (find salvation—freed from astral
Zebra mimics the deterministic structure by inserting its body between it and us . This is how astral determinism is broken; instead of the blind, striving mere mechanism, there is living volition (the salvific). The previous mechanical force is rewoven for (1) the fulfillment of Zebra's plan; and (2) the benefit of the individuals involved . Any event can be headed off, aborted, altered or brought about . Evidently this is grace or divine providence, and the individual may very well sense it . Where freedom enters into it I'm not sure, but I know one thing: Before the insertion/intervention there was none—in fact that's the main quality (bad) of the ananke world—the person is flat-out programmed—caused to react to cuing . The ancients were right about this being a—or even the—prime purpose of God vs. the stars.
( KW're Chrissy's birth defect causality of insight). Then in that case the Beatles song, the earlier scrotal pain, and the blinding beam of light coming through the fish sign did not cause the knowledge to enter my head: it was, rather, a simulation of causality, of the actual deterministic kind found outside Zebra . So Zebra does not just persuade
Could the Marxists have recognized Ubik as a picture of Zebra and wondered if I [consciously] knew? Do they know? It is their antagonist . Maybe they don't view it theologically but rather as a superior life form . (Maybe they are right .) This would be scientific truth, as I told the Bureau . I conceive of Zebra as a weak vegetable level
[ 25:24] Most of what I know came directly by revelation (3-74 on). But I had already discerned that the reality of our world was not as it seemed, and that we had blocked off memories as to our origin and purpose (imposter
God is immanent; the universe (world) is his body . But he is greater than the world (panentheism). What is not God is not wholly real (acosmic panentheism). Only God is wholly real, but he is surrounded by a veil (dokos) of appearance, like—similar to colored lights given off as if he is an incredibly multifaceted perfect sphere revolving . All time (including past and future) is present to God as a landscape of the now . He is very close to man, hidden only by the veil . He is deus absconditus: the phenomenal world we see is projected by him, as if emitted . However, he is capable of infusing (transubstantiating) it . Because of this a hylozoistic universe exists; it is an organism with noös governing it . Men can be made use of by God to achieve results within the historical process . In terms of human life, the evolution of history is, as designed by God, toward greater freedom; this is how humans should view it, but a switch in viewpoint can occur during which men cease to view themselves as individual men at all and view themselves as microforms of God, in which case the goal is not human freedom, but recollection that they are incarnations of God, and, having remembered, can rejoin—regain their identity as—God the Macrocosm . God has entered his own cosmos, so that it is not only his body but a body enclosing him, in a three-part process of emanation, sustaining and final reabsorption . The last part begins with the restoration of memory that one is God or part of God; at this point the banishment is already ending or ended . To thus remember is to have passed entirely through emanation, sustainment as distinct from God, and to have started back; all that remains is to get back—and this is the sole line of movement left ahead once memory returns; it is the final phase of a very long journey downward and then horizontally vertically
What is accomplished by this is the penetrating by God's mind (divine noös, or St. Sophia) to the deepest (furthest) levels of his body-organism so, because of this, he pervades it everywhere at every level, and it cannot be said of any level or place ,
EB definition of Panentheism :
[ 26:38] EB :
Whitehead thought of 'the primordial nature of God' as a general ordering of the process of the world, the ultimate basis of all induction and assertion of law, a 'conceptual pretension' that functions in the selection of these 'eternal objects ,' or repeatable patterns that are enacted in the world . God, however, does not create actual entities . He provides them with initial impetus, in the form of their subjective aim, to self creation . Even God is the outcome of creativity, the process by which the events of the world are synthesized into new unities . It is the creative, not fully predictable, advance into novelty of the pluralistic process.
[ 26:42] Leibniz: We are colonies of monads who perceive others with blurred vision as materially existing, whereas in reality only monads (minds) exist, God being the Highest Monad who harmonizes and integrates the other monads . The concept colonies of monads being what humans really are, but due to blurred vision we see bodies—this is much like my own vision of the great organism with what I called subsections.
[ 26:43] EB :
[ 26:45] Perhaps the condition I was in (in 3-74) is more important than the actual content of any act I performed while in that condition—it was what I knew, as well as what I did—what I did grew out of what I knew, and what I knew grew out of what I had become . The 3 (what I did, knew, had become, and by new perceived
In fact, it seems evident, and a very important point, that my evolutionary leap forward up to a new level of being hence knowing and perceiving hence doing was a response on my part to danger (or at the very least distress and threat) and that what was set off in me (however done, by whatever mechanics achieved) was a superior defense system of which I had previously been unaware . It is like a bird that had never used its wings until one day its nest caught fire . This is a view in which my biological evolutionary achievement is stressed, and external aid is ignored; it views it as intrinsic mechanisms and does not focus on the divine entity (God) who supplied me with that mechanism—in this view I am taking all the credit, as if the bird imagined that by some daring ingenuity he grew the wings . But the wings were given him, and not only that, also the stimulation (suggestion, etc .) of how to use them.
Beyond any doubt my welfare was at stake . Both as an individual and as participant (member) in an historic group whose victory was necessary to human evolution acted out in history . We (our group) had to win; I as part of it had to win . My trouble (danger) I assess now was the danger besetting us as an historic group: the wave of the future, the
to be grandiose . My fight was not merely an individual fight . But I don't think it was the tax thing: I think it was me as ungeliebte autor, as not-liked author . (Cf . the I Ching :
[ 26:49] Once more the vernal equinox, and the birth date of Christ, approaches . The more understanding I acquire about the experience of 3-74 the more amazed I am . There are not even claims of experiences such as mine, when one realizes what I found myself able to see and understand . Jesus himself said that
