Oh little girl ,
little child, don't deform reality . Don't mock us both.
What a pity ,
that your hearing is going so bad at the age of sixty, Elena Twa . Or perhaps it's my own . I thought I heard you say something else . But the echoes in this damned valley are enough to make anything unintelligible; I could have sworn that I was offering you an illegal collusion in an untruth and that like a sensible, sane woman, you were accepting.
By the entrails of God, will you please come down!
Kill, killer.
Oh, come on . You shot her with a narcotic, that's all . You told me so . A narcotic dart.
I'm a liar . I killed her . We use explosive bullets because it's almost always distance work . I have a rifle like the kind you've often seen yourself.
Do you believe it?
I don't care what either of you thinks of me ,
I like it! By God, I like the idea of doing something to somebody for a change instead of having it done to me . Why are you in Safety and Peace if you don't enjoy it!
I told you ,
I know, someone has to do it . Why you?
I was assigned.
Dearest, I'm not good for much; understand that . Farm work or forest work, what else? I have some gift to unravel these human situations, but it's not quite intelligence.
Which is why you're an emissary?
Don't expect me to believe that.
I am what you call an emissary ,
for the same reason that I was in S & P. I'm expendable, my dear . Laura, Whileawayan intelligence is confined in a narrower range than yours; we are not only smarter on the average but there is much less spread on either side of the average . This helps our living together . It also makes us extremely intolerant of routine work . But still there is some variation.
Oh, honey ,
I am stupid.
Face facts, child.
What's this?
I don't know, is it a staple gun?
Whose is it?
I found it on Janet's bed ,
Just lying there . I think she took it out of her suitcase . I can't figure out what it is . You hold it by the handle and if you move this switch it buzzes on one end, though I don't see why, and another switch makes this piece move up and down . But that seems to be an attachment . It doesn't look as if it's been used as much as the rest of it . The handle's really something; it's all carved and decorated.
Put it back ,
But what is it?
A Whileawayan communications device ,
Put it back, Jeannie.
Is it dangerous?
It can blow you up.
All of me?
What it does to your body ,
Put it back.
Put it back.
Sometimes I want to die.
And suffer for the truth?
How many princes or princesses can say as much?
I suppose you are wondering ,
why I have brought you here.
I'm glad, so glad, so very glad ,
I am called Alice Reasoner ,
christened Alice-Jael; I am an employee of the Bureau of Comparative Ethnology . My code name is Sweet Alice; can you believe it?
Look around you and welcome yourselves; look at me and make me welcome; welcome myself, welcome me, welcome I ,
An artist's conception ,
Why is that?
Aggressive and bellicose persons ,
Why is that?
