a perturbation in the reality field.
heroic act that causes genuine newness
weeds in the alley.
His body was camouflaged as world . World was transubstantiated into Christ's Body.
the second signal.
You suffer a little now in life; it is little compared with the great joys, the bliss that awaits you . Do you think I in my theodicy would allow you to suffer greatly in proportion to your reward?
I am the infinite . I will show you . Where I am, infinity is; where infinity is, there I am . Construct lines of reasoning by which to understand your experience in 1974 . I will enter the field against their shifting nature . You think they are logical but they are not; they are infinitely creative.
Here I am; here is infinity.
Here is infinity; here I am.
Here is infinity . Here, then, I am.
Infinity . Hence I am here.
Every thought leads to infinity, does it not? Find one that doesn't.
Here is infinity; here am I . Try again.
Infinity and myself; I am here.
That is myself . I am infinity . Where infinity is, there am I; where I am, there is infinity . All roads—all explanations for 2-3-74—lead to an infinity of Yes-No, This or That, On-Off, OneZero, Yin-Yang, the dialectic, infinity upon infinity; an infinity of infinities . I am everywhere and all roads lead to me; omniae viae ad Deum ducent . Try again . Think of another possible explanation for 2-3-74.
This is not logic ,
You are not the doubter; you are the doubt itself . So do not try to know; you cannot know . Guess on the basis of the highest pile of computer punch cards . There is an infinite stack in the heap marked INFINITY, and I have equated infinity with me . What, then, is the chance that it is me? You cannot be positive; you will doubt . But what is your guess?
Probably it is you, since there is an infinity of infinities forming before me.
There is the answer, the only one you will ever have ,
You could be pretending to be God ,
and actually be Satan.
You could be testing out a logic system in a giant computer and I am—
Will it always be infinite?
I doubt if you exist ,
I will play this game forever ,
or until you become tired.
I will find a thought, an explanation, a theory, that does not set off an infinite regress.
Over a period of six and a half years you have developed theory after theory to explain 2-3-74 . Each night when you go to bed you think, 'At last I found it . I tried out theory after theory until now, finally, I have the right one .' And then the next morning you wake up and say, 'There is one fact not explained by that theory . I will have to think up another theory .' And so you do . By now it is evident to you that you are going to think up an infinite number of theories, limited only by your lifespan, not limited by your creative imagination . Each theory gives rise to a subsequent theory, inevitably . Let me ask you; I revealed myself to you and you saw that I am the infinite void . I am not in the world, as you thought; I am transcendent, the deity of the Jews and Christians . What you see of me in world that you took to ratify pantheism—that is my being filtered through, broken up, fragmented and vitiated by the multiplicity of the flux world; it is my essence, yes, but only a bit of it: fragments here and there, a glint, a riffle of wind...now you have seen me transcendent, separate and other from world, and I am more; I am the infinitude of the void, and you know me as I am . Do you believe what you saw? Do you accept that where the infinite is, I am; and where I am, there is the infinite?
And your theories are infinite, so I am there . Without realizing it, the very infinitude of your theories pointed to the solution; they pointed to me and none but me . Are you satisfied, now? You saw me revealed in theophany; I speak to you now; you have, while alive, experienced the bliss that is to come; few humans have experienced that bliss . Let me ask you, was it a finite bliss or an infinite bliss?
So no earthly circumstance, situation, entity or thing could give rise to it.
No, Lord ,
Then it is I ,
Are you satisfied?
Let me try one other theory ,
What happened in 2-3-74 was that—
Try again . I will play forever, for infinity.
Here's a new theory ,
I ask myself, 'What God likes playing games? Krishna . You are Krishna . '
But there is a god who mimics other gods; that god is Dionysus . This may not be Krishna at all; it may be Dionysus pretending to be Krishna.
You cannot be YHWH who You say You are ,
Because YHWH says ,' I am that which I am ,' or ,' I shall be that which I shall be .' And you—
Do I change?
Or do your theories change?
You do not change ,
My theories change . You, and 2-3-74, remain constant.
Then you are Krishna playing with me ,
Or I could be Dionysus ,
pretending to be Krishna . And I wouldn't know it; part of the game is that I, myself, do not know . So I am God, without realizing it . There's a new theory!
Play again . Another move.
We are both Gods ,
