The Golden Man ,
I Hope I Shall Arrive Soon.
Martians Come in Clouds ,
Not by Its Cover ,
Of Withered Apples ,
We Can Remember It for You Wholesale ,
Aphids don't bite people.
What are you grinning about, Jerry?
What the fuck are you doing there all day in the shower with the goddamn dog?
I got to get the aphids off him.
I don't see any aphids ,
What's an aphid?
It eventually kills you ,
That's what an aphid is . They're in my hair and my skin and my lungs, and the goddamn pain is unbearable—I'm going to have to go to the hospital.
How come I can't see them?
I'll show you one ,
Bring me a bottle or jar ,
from under the sink . We'll cap it or put a lid on it and then I can take it with me when I go to the doctor and he can analyze it.
What a big one! Wow!
Help me find more for the doctor to see ,
What do we get for these ,
I mean, does the doctor pay a bounty or something? A prize? Any bread?
I get to help perfect a cure for them this way ,
Hey, man ,
you go on putting them in the jars while I take a leak and like that.
Jerry, hey—those bugs sort of scare me . I don't like it here by myself.
I got to take a leak!
I'm afraid out here.
Then go fuck yourself!
Do these fuckers sting?
Yeah, they sting ,
That's what I thought.
Can I wash my hands and get them off and wait for you?
Can you lay about ten deaths on me?
Christ, I'm entirely out—I'm looking to score myself . Let me know when you find some, I could use some.
What's wrong with the supply?
Some busts, I guess.
Holy parishioners, let us call on God now at this time to request His intervention in the agonies of those who are thrashing about on their beds withdrawing.
Yeah, yeah.
But before He intervenes with a fresh supply of—
All right, what's your name?
You don't know your own name?
This guy is really spaced.
Don't shoot me here.
At least take me to the station house and shoot me there, out of sight.
Aren't you Bob's old lady?
Sure you are ,
I met you at his place.
me and Bob and another chick had some old Simon and Garfunkel tapes, and you were sitting there—
I thought you were going to knock me down and bang me.
