I'll they know we're here ,
why didn't they send someone to meet us? I mean, other people.
Why should they?
Well, if you must know, it was because the mother was up there to shoot bears for a zoo . She had captured three bears and shot eighteen but was running out of film; and when she vent into labor, she let the three bears go, for she didn't know how long the labor would last, and there was nobody to feed the bears . They conferred with each other and stayed around, though, because they had never seen a human being give birth before and they were interested . Everything went fine until the baby's head came out, and then the Spirit of the Woods, who is very mischievous and clever, decided to have some fun . So right after the baby came out, it sent a rock slide down the mountain and the rock slide cut the umbilical cord and knocked the mother to one side . Aid then it made an earthquake which separated the mother and the baby by miles and miles, like the Grind Canyon in South Continent.
Isn't that going to be a lot of trouble?
Do you want to hear this story or don't you?
When she was ten, there began to be trouble . She had some bear friends by then, although she didn't like to walk on all-fours as the bears did and the bears didn't like that, because bears are very conservative . She argued that walking on all-fours didn't suit her skeletal development . The bears said, 'Oh, but we have always walked this way .' They were pretty stupid . But nice, I mean . Anyway, she walked upright, the way it felt best, but when it came to copulation, that was another matter . There was nobody to copulate with . The little girl wanted to try it with her male-best-bear-friend (for animals do not live the way people do, you know) but the he-bear would not even try . 'Alas' he said (You can tell by that he was much more elegant than the other bears, ha ha) I'm afraid I'd hurt you with my claws because you don't have all the fur that she-bears have . And besides that, you have trouble assuming the proper position because your back legs are too long . And besides that, you don't smell like a bear and I'm afraid my Mother would say it was bestiality .' That's a joke . Actually it's race prejudice . The little girl was very lonely and bored . Finally after a long time, she browbeat her bear-mother into telling her about her origins, so she decided to go out looking for some people who were not bears . She thought life might be better with them . She said good-bye to her bear-friends and started South, and they all wept and waved their handkerchiefs . The girl was very hardy and woods-wise, since she had been taught by the bears . She traveled all day and slept all night . Finally she came to a settlement of people, just like this one, and they took her in . Of course she didn't speak people-talk
Then one morning somebody told her there was a bear looking for her—
Wait a minute ,
I tell things ,
the way they happen ,
Anyone who lives in two worlds ,
is bound to have a complicated life.
be a good girl
Are you crippled?
Come back, sun! Goddammit, come back! Come back!
You can't.
You didn't sew my clothes.
Don't worry ,
Somebody's coming for you.
You can't ,
You can't ,
See the moon.
Everyone's asking about you ,
We thought you might bring that nice young man with you again ,
We've separated ,
What was the matter with him?
Where's Bro?
We're going to have a nice day ,
There's a play tonight and a block dance . There are lots of young people, Jeannine.
Don't, mother ,
I don't mind ,
Bless you, I've done it often enough.
You haven't finished ,
Well, I don't—I want to find Bro ,
I'll see you ,
Just think, Bud ,
She must have got in last night . Did you get in last night?
Oh, baby ,
be nice to Auntie.
When are you going to get married?
They only want what's good for you ,
They love you ,
I think you ought to go and rejoin them, Jeannine ,
Your mother's a wonderful woman who has never raised her voice in anger all the time you've known her . And she brought all of you up and got you all through high school, even though she had to work . Your brother's a firm, steady man who makes a good living for his wife and children, and Eileen wants nothing more in the world than her husband and her little boy and girl . You ought to appreciate them more, Jeannine.
Jeannine, you'll never get a good job ,
There aren't any now . And if there were, they'd never give them to a woman, let alone a grown-up baby like you . Do you think you could hold down a really good job, even if you could get one? They're all boring anyway, hard and boring . You don't want to be a dried-up old spinster at forty but that's what you will be if you go on like this . You're twenty-nine . You're getting old . You ought to marry someone who can take care of you, Jeannine.
Don't care ,
Marry someone who can take care of you ,
It's all right to do that; you're a girl . Find somebody like Bud who has a good job, somebody you can respect; marry him . There's no other life for a woman, Jeannine; do you want never to have children? Never to have a husband? Never to have a house of your own?
