I am you and you are you ,
You have divided yourself in two to play against yourself . I, who am one half, I do not remember, but you do . As it says in the Gita, as Krishna says to Arjuna, 'We have both lived many lives, Arjuna; I remember them but you do not .' And an infinite regress was set off; I could well be Krishna's charioteer, his friend Arjuna, who does not remember his past lives.
I cannot play to infinity ,
I will die before that point comes.
Then you are not God ,
But I can play throughout infinity; I am God . Play.
Perhaps I will be reincarnated ,
Perhaps we have done this before, in another life.
I am too tired ,
Then the game is over.
After I have rested—
Herbert wrote that in 1633 ,
Rest and the game ends.
I will play on ,
after I rest . I will play until finally I die of it.
And then you will come to me ,
This is my punishment ,
that I play, that I try to discern if it was you in March of 1974.
What was my crime?
that I am compelled to do this?
Or your deed of merit ,
I don't know ,
Because you are not God.
But you know ,
Or maybe you don't know and you're trying to find out.
Play again . I am waiting.
Where there is infinity, there is God; where there is God, there is infinity
the human intellect will not lead to God but will lead only deeper and deeper into delusion
The human intellect, when it has pushed to infinity, will at last, through ever deepening delusion, find God.
the wise old King ,
the secret underground Christians
The Empire never died
As far as the struggle with evil in this world is concerned, Augustine surrendered and abandoned the field . No imminent supernatural intervention in history was expected . Augustine taught what has been referred to as 'realized' eschatology . For him the battle has already been fought on the spiritual ground that really mattered...he rejected as carnal any expectations of a renewed and purified world that the believers could expect to enjoy.
Augustine's allegorical millennialism be came the official doctrine of the church, and apocalypticism went underground.
Rather in the manner of the Jews.
He has been transplanted and is alive
Would you think I in my theodicy would not make it up to you, make it up so that this suffering here would seem—be—paltry in comparison?
We are created here ,
removed as if by divine fiat
that moves the sun and the other stars
His will is law
perturbation in the reality field
this theophany led to my 6½ years of exegesis
pulled world through infinity ,
a perturbation in the reality field
Well, it only goes to show how astute my intimations were
I can provide you with an infinitude of bliss; not just great bliss but infinite bliss . And this infinite bliss that you (will) feel derives from my personality and essence of loving-kindness (agapē). Will you accept that only God possesses an essence (einai) of agapē that would cause you an infinitude of bliss?
A chicken is an egg's way of producing another egg.
glint of color, ripple of weeds, in the alley
World, which is irreal, and which I suspected all along is irreal, broke down and conceded that it is irreal; so what I see now instead must be real—but it wasn't—must be that which I define as real: God.
