Track A changed to Track B
Rome (A.D. 45 )
as it is above so below.
once a man took a...,
Break a stick and there is Christ.
The part is contained in the whole
As it is above so it is below
The part contains the whole.
The whole contains the part.
the whole is contained in the part
the whole is contained in the part
the part is contained in the whole.
am I alive or...,
KGB contacted me.
They know I'm their pitiless enemy.
Spread of meaning ,
psychotic self took over and problem solved.
In contrast to its exoteric form, the esoteric Torah was regarded as a pre-existential being made up of the one great name of God . Philo speaks of the Torah as a living being whose body is the literal text of the Pentateuch and whose soul is the occult meaning that underlies the written word.
living being whose body is the literal text...and whose soul is the occult meaning that underlies the written word
once the mind becomes psychotic nothing new ever happens in it (or enters it, whatever).
He died for a few (15) minutes
No greater love hath a man than that he give up his life for his friends ,
the man who ...
hieroglyphs of God ,
ich bin der Retter.
the kingdom of God.
one of us is dead.
The body is the tomb of the soul
second birth by the spirit.
A long time ago
He causes things to look different so it'd appear time has passed.
the God whom we see after death.
what the senses do not report
that which thought was, and that which was thought, and this draws God back to world; he is no longer otherworldly
the God whom we see when we die
Deus sive natura sive substantia
and [was] responsible for its own growth.
in but not of
I left the settlement
The work is completed—the final world is here . He has been transplanted and is alive.
I was sent up the gangplank first . Into the ark
Against my will—like a ➌ duck.
God is the book of the universe
the same [volume of leaves] that the universe holds scattered through its maze.
The AI voice will guide you.
They cannot get to you because of the AI voice.
His first creation: his darling and delight
and [he] is alive
is what he is ,
He brings into existence what is.
