impelled toward the reinstatement of an earlier, more stable state
Phylogeny contained in ontogeny.
God is not an external intelligence...it is more worthy for him to be the internal principle of motion, which is his own nature, his own soul.
It is unity that enchants me.
This is the hour you've waited for.
I am not here . Neither am I elsewhere.
But I am not here
I am not here . Also I am not elsewhere.
What is real?
The head Apollo is about to return.
This is the hour you've waited for.
The only living reality we have now is Philip the first.
only...now ,
we have so far only been able to take over a single piece of reality in this particular time so far: Philip.
critical article on PKD ,
beyond lies the Wug ,
We will recant (?) progressively in time.
call back to mind, to memory, to restore, to bring back to use, operation . To recover.
This is the hour you've waited for.
the head Apollo is about to return.
Latent form is the master of obvious form.
latent form is the master of obvious form
it is the damaged mind trying (unsuccessfully) to monitor its own damage.
We are damaged minds trying to monitor our own damage . And herein is a tragic paradox: the very occlusion itself prevents us from assessing, overcoming or ever being aware of the occlusion.
Faith of...,
Faith of....
Maybe portions of the others are literally real, too?
I am the doubter and the doubt, and I the hymn the Brahman sings
Are you God?
They (we) have been punished entirely too much for what they (we) did.
Someone in this room is outside of time.
my darling and delight
the first book of Adam and Eve
They wish to be equal to—like—us ,
the great Satanic blasphemy ,
I did call you, Philip.
You are doomed to do what you will do . There is no other possibility . Some will be saved and some will not.
The head Apollo is about to return.
The time you've waited for has come.
Don't tell that you're a secret Christian.
It (the Xerox missive) was from an intelligence officer in the Army.
I did call you, Philip.
You are doomed to do what you will do . There is no other possibility . Some will be saved and some will not.
little boy Philip on the raft floating toward London
from the other side ,
Nothing new ever again came into his mind after that
One by one he is drawing us out of this world.
the time has come.
The time you've waited for has come.
One by one he is drawing us out of this world
