Sons of Darkness.
She was not acceptable before.
thing that is the case ,
a very poisonous poison for you
St. Sophia is going to be born again; she was not acceptable before.
Muss ein lieber Vater wohnen überm Sternenzelt.
The rasp can't be worked in.
It could be heaven, it could be hell.
the existence of existence.
Deus sive substantia sive natura
Parmenides did not say there were 2 realms, a priori and empirical; he said there were 2 ways of viewing one reality, one right way—a priori—and one false—empirical . Plato misunderstood this and assigned some reality to the empirical as if it were a partial realm, rather than a way of knowing, a partial way, not realm
a God of nature ,
God created Torah before he created the universe.
almighty power who rules earth and sky / and variegated orders in confusion lie.
why is there something rather than nothing?
is there something rather than nothing?
eye for an eye.
valence away from plumb.
I am no longer blind . I was (previously) seeing the universe backward
stranger in a strange land
an intelligence officer in the army
Evil holds the power centers
Illusion holds the power centers.
people on the periphery.
The self is everywhere.
Valis only comes into existence when my mind is externalized and superimposed onto outer reality; only then does the message (i.e., Valis) come into existence.
It is an equation between my mind and the external world.
We are each parts.
It is a kind of vortex.
Deus sive substantia sive natura.
The harmonious fitting together of the beautiful.
saw the God whom we see when we die ,
I have bought my redemption (by the price I paid in terms of suffering).
I bought my redemption through suffering.
I hope they (the torturers of the sheep) burn in hell for doing this.
Praised the feathers and forgot the dying bird
harmonious fitting-together of the beautiful
And lead him back to his throne.
Had I known that thou wert thirsty I would have carried thee hence myself ,
Then thou thyself art fit to be the shepherd of Israel.
Upon Reading The Tao of Physics.
A perturbation in the reality field.
The basis of Valis is that it unites
Realm of Forms ,
The secret stolen in one's hands, through (the ring of) angels.
Your forefathers ate manna in the wilderness and they are all dead . But I...am the bread of eternal life.
It is a secret that ...
He stole the secret of how to...,
On the vine image, in the Synoptics, Jesus uses the vine as a symbol of the kingdom of God.
You are the branches....
