I saw God!
Aha—it tricks me further ,
Aha: now I see what is really there: God, immanent God, probably Brahman.
If it can project first one reality—USA 1974—and then another—'Acts'—it can project anything
I am as you desire me
mixed in with the inferior bulk Sophia has inserted—without Satan knowing it—certain truths.
We fell into the maze, and the maze is alive; it changes
I am Atman that dwells in the heart of every mortal . I am Vishnu . I am Shiva . Among words I am the sacred syllable OM . I am Himalaya . I am the holy fig tree . Among horses I am...of weapons...I am the wind...the shark among fish: Ganges among the rivers . I am the beginning, the middle and the end of creation...I am the knowledge of things spiritual . I am the logic of those who debate . In the alphabet I am A . Among compounds I am the copulative . I am time without end . I am the sustainer . My face is everywhere . I am death that snatches all . I also am the source of all that shall be born . I am glory, prosperity, beautiful speech, memory, intelligence, steadfastness and forgiveness . I am the dice play of the cunning . I am the strength of the strong . I am triumph and perseverance . I am the purity of the good . I am Krishna . I am the sceptre and the mastery of those who rule, the policy of those who seek to conquer . I am the silence of things secret . I am the knowledge of the knower . I am the divine seed of all that lives . In this world nothing animate or inanimate exists without me.
Love triumphs over love ,
the word made flesh
The logos became flesh ,
Good Friday spell ,
the Good Friday spell.
pity's highest power ,
The slayer sees himself in what he slays
slayer and the slain
the properties of the nonexistent universe
I hope for his sake God does not exist.
I hope for our sake God does not exist, because only if he does not exist can he rule (steer) the cosmos.
the waste [land] and the void ,
St. Sophia will be born again; she was not acceptable before.
And when I returned I shall be like the lightning ,
Behold! I tell you a mystery ,
We shall not all sleep, but we shall be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye...and then shall come to pass the saying which is written, 'Oh death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? '
One apple plus one apple equals two apples ,
One plus one equals two.
Christ, the Logos, invading the plasmate, Valis, transubstantiation ,
You see, here time turns into space.
the 'Acts' lens-grid
Heart Like a Wheel.
The whole is greater than the sum of its parts ,
business as usual ,
King of Tears.
is Felix Buckman's twin
the joy God ,
This, too, is sooth.
secret Christians blowing up the black iron prison
Is the universe real? Is God good?
The sacred mushroom and the cross.
restored to their pre-fallen state before the soul fell into earthly incarnation in the tomb that is the body
in the beginning ,
archetypal ideas or eidei
primordial archetypal ideas used by God in creating the universe
you are not the doubter—you are the doubt
I am H. Fat
slowly going crazy in Santa Ana, Calif. ,
How does the particular, the unique, the imperfect, the local, become the abstract, the eidos, the universal?
The entire universe, possibly, is in the invisible process of turning into the Lord.
Man is holy . Man is the only true God . This is the new news I bring you.
perturbation in the reality field.
