That can't be restored, can it?
That's irreversible.
The clinic people said they'd let me see him, and they said they believed he could work some, you know—
You don't have speech-center damage, do you? In your—what is it called? —occipital lobe.
Do you have any kind of damage?
No, it's just...you know . I have trouble saying it about those fucking clinics; I hate the Neural-Aphasia Clinics . One time I was there visiting a guy, he was trying to wax a floor—they said he couldn't wax the floor, I mean he couldn't figure out how to do it...What got me was he kept trying . I mean not just for like an hour; he was still trying a month later when I came back . Just like he had been, over and over again, when I first saw him there, when I first went to visit him . He couldn't figure out why he couldn't get it right . I remember the look on his face . He was sure he'd get it right if he kept trying to flash on what he was doing wrong . 'What am I doing wrong?' he kept asking them . There was no way to tell him . I mean, they told him—hell, I told him—but he still couldn't figure it out.
The receptor sites in his brain are what I've read usually goes first ,
Someone's brain where he's gotten a bad hit or like that, like too heavy.
Look, there's one of those new Porsches with two engines.
I knew a guy who hot-wired one of those new Porsches ,
and got it out on the Riverside Freeway and pushed it up to one seventy-five—wipe-out.
Right into the ass of a semi . Never saw it, I guess.
You're shaking ,
I'm tired ,
I was up two nights and two days counting bugs . Counting them and putting them in bottles . And finally when we crashed and got up and got ready the next morning to put the bottles in the car, to take to the doctor to show him, there was nothing in the bottles . Empty.
Every fucking one ,
Nothing . No bugs . And then I re alized, I fucking realized . It came to me, about his brain, Jerry's brain.
Your mind plays tricks ,
Too late for the brake ,
'S he okay?
Didn't I tell you to wait until we were doing it with you? And when a bumper jack slips—shit, man, you can't hold back five thousand pounds!
I repeatedly and repeatedly told you!
I went for the brake ,
But now I realize—
I was asleep ,
It's the first time in a couple weeks the bugs let up enough so I could . I haven't got any sleep at all for five days—I been runnin' and runnin' . I thought they were maybe gone; they've been gone . I thought they finally gave up and went somewhere else, like next door and out of the house entirely . Now I can feel them again . That tenth No Pest Strip I got, or maybe it's the eleventh—they cheated me again, like they did with all the others.
You dumb kid—when a bumper jack slips get the hell out of there . Forget the car . Don't ever get behind it and try to push back against all that mass and block it with your body.
But, Jerry, I was afraid the axle—
Fuck the axle . Fuck the car . It's your life.
whatever gets you through the dark night of the soul.
In the beginning was the word
letter from the future ,
any such terms will do.
( i) My body functions as a pure mechanism according to the Laws of Nature . (ii) Yet I know, by incontrovertible direct experience, that I am directing its motions, of which I foresee the effects, that may be fateful and all-important, in which case I feel and take full responsibility for them . The only possible inference from these two facts is, I think, that I—I in the widest meaning of the word, that is to say, every conscious mind that has ever said or felt' I'—am the person, if any, who controls the 'motion of the atoms' according to the Laws of Nature.
There is no culture here in California, only trash.
Remembrance of Time Irreal.
My books are forgeries . Nobody wrote them . The goddam typewriter wrote them....
the new unconscious ,
the adaptive unconscious.
Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior.
Crito, we ought to offer a cock to Asklepios.
Entoptic Vision and Physicalist Emergentism ,
slowly going crazy in Santa Ana, California.
Since I last wrote you, the magnitude of the despotic gang of professional, organized criminals who came to power legally (as did Hitler in Germany) is increasingly revealed to the U.S. public . We Americans are now faced with precisely the situation the German people of the 1930s faced: we elected a criminal government to 'save us from Communism ,' and are stuck.... This brings up the question of the proper moral response and attitude of the U.S. citizen who did not know this
The Most Brilliant Sci-Fi Mind on Any Planet: Philip K. Dick ,
for a human activity which has disappeared.
has a job to do.
the kingdom of God cometh not with observation.
neti, neti ,
not this, not this.
