( 2) Torah is both oral and written . It is the blueprint for creation and contains the answer for every problem every person will ever have . God studies the Torah and cannot act contrary to it . This implies a living information organism—what I called the plasmate . In Tears King Felix was Torah.
We are dealing with an information processing entity which (1) has power to control reality; (2) which is present in (with?) reality; I mean, it is here (immanent?). Or: what we call reality is our way of viewing this information . The information is more real than any other substantia . It is like digital signal to recorded music or video image; what we call the universe is a read-out of Torah as info signal . It is projected into substantia . It can be stored . It tracks . machine
Then Valis was feeding Torah into reality (in 3-74), which defined reality (modulated
Torah served as YHWH's blueprint for creation and contained the eternal divine formula for the world's future workings and thus the answers to all problems for all times and all people . God himself is depicted as studying the Torah, for even he cannot make decisions concerning the world that contradict it.
[ 48:945] The situation was a desperate one; I was consuming time faster and faster, which bears out my recent insight that I had been speeding up in relation to real time until finally I used up all time totally and passed outside of time! The lithium was certainly a factor in the conversion from motion to rest . It stopped me suddenly, and reality stabilized into the realm of forms, the upper realm . There must have been profound catecholamine changes . It was as if I had been hyperventilating for years progressively faster and faster; my inner biological clock was speeding up, ahead of outer events, heading toward biological exhaustion and hence death . But just before death occurred, there was intervention—yet I actually passed on along the tape
[ 48:974] All my acosmic novels deal with the topic of VR: putting your foot through reality—e.g., through the ground, the ground sinking away, as if you've stepped into an old septic tank, as in my dream :
I am dealing with the issue of Heidegger, but not
[ 48:982] The total deterministic system (elemental powers) is that which Spinoza equates with God; obviously, as a Jew, deriving his conception of it from the Torah (which fits my analysis perfectly). This is why he says even God must act as he does and in no other way; God is as determined as a falling stone—which I think is a mechanistic-oriented absurdity of the Newtonian period in human thought—the pool balls
[ 48:986] Reality was amended by amending the instructions fed it . So it was not amended directly; its received signal was overridden . This is what I saw that I called Valis: the resetting of reality . This is why I came to the conclusion that I had not seen God but the will of God . Interestingly, what came into being (therefore) did not follow from what had come before; i.e., causality was overruled, and there was what I called pretextual causality . Things and processes seemed alive because sentient purpose rather than efficient mechanical law was modulating them . I was seeing the results: of something coming between the law and reality, a softness, a melting, a flexibility so that reality was responsive to me as a you it.
[ 48:989] Possibility: my normal personality is fugal . Under extreme pressure the fugal personality retreated as far as possible—this personality took over in 1970 when I took the mescaline . It was psychotic and fugal = psychotic . Then a non-fugal self (Thomas
[ 48:992] This is the secret (Christ in us
The record is cleared by this exculpatory intervention, but it must occur before sentence is carried out; time is of the essence . I get the impression that the list of sins (crimes) are in relation to the law and involve a rigid karmic system of retributive
[ 48:995] Ah! The messenger's blank document when inserted between the list of your sins/crimes and the retributive court
[ 48:996] Although this wasn't presented to me as a cybernetic model it certainly can be rendered into cybernetic terms, whereupon the difficult notion of vicarious atonement
It has to do with post-Newtonian physics, with fields and
I present the following weird theory . I reversed the inner and the outer world, which is why I felt as if the universe was a balloon and I was walking on the outside of it: I had the universe in me and so knew things I had no way of knowing about the outside world: I could actually look into myself and find the macrocosm; hence I knew a priori about the normally outside world . Hence a voice (the AI voice) in my head tells me about the outside world (e.g. ,
This is still true; in hypnagogic states I look inward and learn about the big outer world—i.e., the macrocosm . This is the way by which all the information, right back to the beginning, came to me . And especially the telepathic experience . The total mind of the macro-system is in me because the macrocosm is in me . (This has to do with the mirror effect—Paracelsus? or Bruno—one of them; anyhow it's hermetic—Leibniz!) To have a priori knowledge of outer reality is to become like Ahura Mazd, who contains the cosmos . This explains a whole raft of occult and supernatural phenomena: the AI voice, Thomas, dreams in Greek: how I could know a language I don't know, facts I don't know, hear a voice, see pictures, and info re Chris' birth defect, shot at me from
This certainly is what being Adam Kadmon
[ 49:1052] I just now read over the outline for VR and experienced moksa, due to the final note about monotheism and what monotheism really means . Illusion and evil are the same . Reality and God are the same . Thus to truly see would be to see (this follows logically) what I saw: Valis and the plasmate—i.e., God, since he could not have a merely contingent relationship to reality . (I had really done my homework: Spinoza and Buber and Heidegger and the OT .) It is not that he does not have a merely contingent relationship to the universe; no—he could not . When illusion (dokos) departs evil departs and YHWH remains; or, when evil departs, YHWH-as-reality remains . And this is what I saw . YHWH did not break into reality (it was not a theophany in that sense); reality reverted to its actual form for me: that of the one God—there is no other . To say ,
is to say ,
But also there is a messenger
[ 49:1057] If identity (self) can be dissolved, along with personal history (antecedents), and time and place, then what exists actually? The difference between YHWH and Brahman is that the former speaks (this includes writing): he has personal identity despite his Brahman-like ubiquity . This self-disclosure in verbal form permits a dialog between him (the macrocosm) and differentiated micro-cosmos . This brings into existence the tongue
Also, what if my
Now, the objection to the idea that this is God is, why would God need our physical reality in order to think? Because if he cannot think without this physical brain
There's another aspect to it invading: it's informing me that all the centers of power have fallen to the evil power, and Valis must utilize
➊ If Valis = reality, then what meaning has the set-ground discrimination
This is pure Eckhart/Sankara.
What I saw in 3-74 was either a fourth aspect (material-energetic-information) or all of the above three combined . Physical thoughts—this would seem to confirm Spinoza's view of substantia and natura as God . (
But what is obvious is that what we call matter thinking matter material thought
All I can think of is Pythagoras' special use of the term kosmos.
I can only think of the final canto in The Commedia about the Book . It was a three-dimensional structure that was (at the same time) a book . Or like a musical score . It was a way of encoding information in a structure or as a structure . Time consisted of accretional layers and there was no locus (lens-system) viewpoint . It constantly changed (became more complex, which is to say, more information-rich). Information as reality—yes . Matter turned into one vast intricate structure . That was information and by being played
No wonder I thought of my experience as postmortem . While alive I
[ 49:1096] 4:30 A.M. hypnagogic :
[ 49:1099] Previous hypnagogic revelation :
This would be a mythic identification with Christ: the way of the cross; only Christ through his suffering can buy our redemption . The dream I just now had of the tortured and dying sheep led to a wall where its brutalized body leaves a 2-D painting like of the Cro-Magnon men of animals, of supernatural beauty . I am told how every detail of the gestalt of the painting came to be, derived from the suffering sheep . And I say in anguish and awareness of the sheep's anguish ,
Obviously the sheep is Christ; the painting is a Roman fresco—mosaic . But this is done not once but repeatedly; there are innumerable sheep paintings (as if branded by a branding iron). This fits in with an earlier hypnagogic revelation: a scene in which the shroud of Christ is burned onto a wall by intense heat as a painting
Here is an antithesis created: the suffering of the sheep is absolutely awful and to be abhorred, and the painting produced is absolutely beautiful . But this is not presented as a choice but as a fact: this is how you get such a painting . Still, I deplore it in the dream, so I feel it is not justified: this torture is not justified even by the picture produced . So my emotional sympathy—agape—outweighs my aesthetic response, however profound the latter . This recalls the passage in Paul where he says it is more important to possess agape than the charisma of the Holy Spirit! Is this, then, the dream, the clue to the true meaning of Christianity and Christ's death? That, through agape, we instinctively respond that it is not justified? There is no end justification for such dreadful means . The death of Christ, then, is like the purpose of a Greek tragedy: it is to inspire pity and terror and out of this a profound sense of no; it should not be: art subordinated to pity: why, this is the theme of my Chains of Air
The meaning lies in the sorrow aroused rather than in the results of the art produced . (Beauty—in the Platonic eternal eidos! The message is anti-Platonic klagendes geschrei! 56) Not aesthetic appreciation . The ephemeral animal's fate arouses certain complex feelings of far more redemptive importance than the cool perception of beauty . The epiphenomenal sheep's suffering has more significance than the eternal, hence archetypal, art produced; we are to react to the specific sheep and not the eidos! Pity, terror, and moral no-saying.
[ 49:1105] I had the strangest hypnopompic thought: that there was no historical Jesus, that it—the Christ story—is an anti-Greek tragic drama whose point is to valorize the transient, fleeting, epiphenomenal individual in contrast to the eternal type, which when understood properly, abolishes time, turning it into space . How? Why? Because we are DNA robots, flickering means (witness the 2-tape-synch programming): we don't really exist until or unless the Christ event occurs, which obliterates the twin tapes, frees us and by abolishing time makes us ends, not means, and hence no longer subject to ananke; the wheels . Phylogenic self thereupon becomes available to the epiperson . It is like in Part II of Faust when Faust halts a fleeting moment . Flux (process) is real; the dialectic flip-flops at enormous velocity, destroying each image
What must be realized is that not only is the individual normally mere means, it is also not real (v. Plato and realism). Christ
[ 49:1132] I've been shown a really perplexing paradox . The highest good is the
[ 49:1151] My theological reinterpretation of Heidegger's Sein vs. das Nichts states that in insuring (creating) Sein, the Godhead is unable to avoid a paradox of values which splits it and sets up an antithetical interaction within the Godhead itself—having to do with means-ends (this is based on Plato's forms vs. epiphenomena). Thus a process universe is brought into existence that is rooted in sorrow at every level . Involved in its own agonized creation (actualization) the Godhead is damaged . (Split = dam age .) Thus the Fall
The ultimate lesson or revelation or gift by the Godhead to the ontogon would be to share its—the Godhead's—own vision of the kosmos with the ontogon, but this would inexorably lead back to a counter-revelation of the paradox (means-end) and the moral ambiguity forced on the Godhead in its goal of establishing kosmos . The ontogon thus favored would then sit in judgment of the Godhead: the roles of God and creature would be reversed: instead of God judging man, man would judge God . The final step is for man to redeem God by returning him to his original unfallen state, as the Kabbala says :
A unitary web in process, self-initiating, in which I participate and whose aspect as it pertained to me my mind determined, conscious, all times simultaneous . I was not outside it . It was everywhere . Its self-motivation was to me most striking (e.g., pretextual cause; no laws were imposed on it). It was equally conscious and aware throughout . Every part of it was perfectly linked together into a structure (kosmos). Yet, the whole structure was epiphenomenal, a magician's trick, done for the sake of beauty, music and dance . It could be
So Valis was not me, but I helped shape its nature as it presented itself to me and mingled with me . This is not a matter of preconception on my part; it is an interpenetration . Hence Thomas
So to explain 2-3-74 I draw on The Tibetan Book of the Dead, Orphism, Gnosticism, Neoplatonism, Buddhism, esoteric Christianity and the Kabbala; my explanation sources are the highest—which is good and which makes sense . But put another way, starting at the other end, I have synthesized all these high sources and derived a single sensationally revolutionary occult doctrine out of them (which I was able to think up due to the addition of my 2-3-74 experience); the distillate expressed theoretically is, We are dead but don't know it, reliving our former real lives but on tape (programmed), in a simulated world controlled by Valis the master entity or reality generator (like Brahman), where we relive in a virtually closed cycle again and again until we manage to add enough new good-karma to trigger off divine intervention which wakes us up and causes us to simultaneously both remember and forget, so that we can begin our reascent back up to our real home . This, then, is Purgatorio, the afterlife, and we are under constant scrutiny and judgment, but don't know it, in a perfect simulation of the world we knew and remember—v . Ubik and Lem's paradigm . We have for a long time been dying brains/souls slipping lower and lower through the realms, but the punishment of reliving this bottom-realm life is also an opportunity to add new good-karma and break the vicious cycle of otherwise endless reliving of a portion of our former life . This, then, is the sophia summa of the 6 esoteric systems—7 if you count alchemy—of the entire world . 8 if you count hermeticism . We are dead, don't know it, and mechanically relive our life in a fake world until we get it right . Ma'at has judged us; we are punished, but we can change the balance...but we don't know we are here to do this, let alone know where we are . We must change the groove
Judaism enters, too, since the change in the groove which introduces the right new good-karma restores us to Eden, to our phylogenic original unfallen state . It may be a small act on our part that adds the good-karma, a small decision, but this reminds me of the story told of Moses and the lamb that wanted to drink at the stream . (Moses, upon finding that the lamb had laboriously made its way to the stream, said ,
to which a voice from Heaven replied ,
You know, in this system (understanding) there is the basis of a teaching of salvation, having to do with the entirely gratuitous good act, done out of unpremeditated and hence spontaneous free will, in contrast to pro grammed works of deterministic duty; there is an obvious Zen quality to it . No formula can be located for the performance of these acts; they would have almost a contrary quality, contrary to your normal way-of-being-in-the-world . They would literally set you apart—off—from yourself, the self that failed to pass Ma'at's scale . They would emanate from the not-you (the normal not-you) from another and different more-real you, as if from another personality locked up within you and alluded to only by these acts . Thus the single personality person becomes reborn; two selves exist, one of which is the old, the programmed, the not-saved . Yes; you would have to act contrary to your own nature; you would get outside yourself . Suddenly I think, This sounds like Thomas! Why it would be; Thomas did precisely what he/I did not do the first time around—then this verifies my system, for the system posits the need, the absolute need, of a Thomas
Thus from these facts I can correctly ascertain that indeed
