is a cypher for the hallucinogenic mushroom bread and broth . But the Bishop believes otherwise . (Here I have to take into account The Road to Eleusis.5 I should probably explicitly refer to it .) (But not to John Allegro's book.6) The effect of the flash of light on or from the gold object (toy? vessel?) is viewed as crucial . It induces (?) memory of having been a—God? Well: prefallen man (cf . The Book of Adam and Eve7) —the Cave of Treasures —the augmented vision/eyesight, ➊ whatever prefallen man may signify . Man who ate of the tree of knowledge and acquired the knowledge that the Elohim
Their theory: at one time (
as with Julian Jaynes' bicameral mind) we (humans) could see these primordial archetypal ideas but no longer can—quite a modification of Malebranche . This is what the eating of the miraculous child of light confers (in conjunction with a flash of light from the golden toys or vessel): ability to see these
All this light business relates to the fourth gospel . (And to Zoroastrianism .) The translator figures out (or speculates) based on the use of light in Orphic rites that literal light is involved—something to do with eyesight and the optic nerve and a jolt to the brain and triggering off selective phosphene activity . The phosphenes—optic neurons—are a primordial sense system by which the
➊ This augmented eyesight the translator and Bishop connect with Malebranche's concept of
I know God through doubt (
[ 60: A-37] Here is the ultimate truth: the fool sees Christ . H. Fat is a fool; and I say (but it is not true),
I perceive Ed Meskys blind and I grieve, and that grief is the purpose of the universe—its existence proves that God exists . That grief is higher even than agape; it was spoken of only in the secret literature, and it has no name . Power-wisdom-agape, so far, and now a fourth disclosure: this grief
I broke into the actual world, saw God; and now I'm back in this God damn hallucination of my own (purgatory). No wonder I'm disconsolate; no wonder I get ripped . To see him and then to lose him—what I need is pistis; I need to be H. Fat . Jack Isidore
[ 75: D-1] 3-74, Valis, was the mens dei . I comprehended it . It's a strange thing to be addicted to, comprehending God's mind—I must be a Sufi; by beauty (the essence of God) read pleasure
I can say no more . What I have done may be good, it may be bad . But the reality that I discern is the true reality; thus I am basically analytical, not creative; my writing is simply a creative way of handling analysis . I am a fictionalizing philosopher, not a novelist; my novel and story writing ability is employed as a means to formulate my perception . * The core of my writing is not art but truth . Thus what I tell is the truth, yet I can do nothing to alleviate it, either by deed or explanation.† Yet this seems somehow to help a certain kind of sensitive troubled person, for whom I speak . I think I understand the common ingredient in those whom my writing helps: they cannot or will not blunt their own intimations about the irrational, mysterious nature of reality, and, for them, my corpus of writing is one long ratiocination regarding this inexplicable reality, an investigation and presentation, analysis and response and personal history . My audience will always be limited to these people . It is bad news for them that, indeed, I am
The problem as I see it is that Plato was 180 degrees wrong; the eidos, the abstract and perfect, does not become the particular, the imperfect; rather, the Q should be ,
We must study particulars, the weeds and debris of the alley; the answer is there: I saw the MMSK and it works the opposite way from how Plato saw it; he saw the eide as ontologically primary, and existing prior to the particulars . But I saw the particulars creating eidei (or phylogons
My dope insight of last night: If and when Kathy can be rendered into geometric form she can be distributed throughout reality and hence will be—become—permanent; this is how the particulars are stored . And this is what Plato calls the forms . [...] It has to do with memory storage; the form
So my meta-abstraction did not just cause me to perceive Valis but, rather, caused Valis to occur in and around me, and as a result of it occurring, I perceived it . (Sophia :
) It (Valis) was not there until the (my) meta-ab straction generated it, virtually ex nihilo . And it evolved it (me) very rapidly; and it embraced the outer world because we are not discrete but are one continuum or reality field; thus Valis is a
[ 75: D-37] We just see the field, the iron filings ,
The bells I heard in 3-74: space (the void). Beethoven's music encloses that space (as I've noted before). He converts space into time and time into space as one thing: space-time, and makes it as a unitary thing perceptible to us . It is motion (i.e., time) in space; audible space . Space with a mysterious nonverbal identity/presence filling it, moving in it . Movement as structure: being in nonbeing . The byss and the abyss . Plus #3: information, i.e. ,
[ 75: D-52] Thus there is an irrational basis out of which reality is created (rather than: reality is irrational). This basis is the need for reality to exist; hence any living creature, since it is/possesses primarily a will, must be cosmogenitor in order to survive . Will comes first; world as a result . Any and every living creature is God then, creating and maintaining reality to satisfy its need to survive . There is no theoretical upper limit to its power to generate and affect (change) reality . The primordial substrate is the will of the individual creature, but this will is not rational . Thus its reality is contradictory and often unpleasant (punishing). The creature's will routinely comes back at it as objective world—world that is its own creation but not recognized as such . World, the product of its will, fights the creature and subdues/defeats it . [...] So the ultimate struggle is for the creature to subdue its own will . It can't do this through power; this is what the will has available to it: power . Nor will cunning work; the will is cunning . Only the Christian renunciation of self will work, in which the other, the Thou, is construed as more valuable than self . This is when agape enters as the solution and the key . Something not oneself must be esteemed over self; this defeats the will; the will must not triumph: it must be defeated . Its triumph amounts to the defeat of the creature as a rational center: defeat of will defeats the coercive power of world over you . (World is your own will coming back at you as an adversary .) The harder you strive the more powerful world becomes . Here enters
[ 75: D-93] All at once I think of something God (or God) revealed to me one time when I was stoned :
[ 75: D-129] One time when I was ripped I wrote
etc . My only solution is to see that every literal worldly thing, person, etc., that I loved and lost was in fact God shining through world; world as lens/transduction of God . And that I cannot truly lose God ,
[ 76: E-2] Beyond all the arcana lies the simple truth expressed in my Chains...Web
[ 76: E-13] Notes on
The fate that the Christian does not run from or dread will (he knows) defeat him . He knows absolutely, with total certitude; this is the very essence of his ability not to run from it . Because he also knows he can't run from it, (1) it will defeat him; and (2) he can't escape it . So he is doubly doomed; its power to destroy him is absolute in two respects: the postulate
[ 76: E-14] I am currently of the opinion that (1) there is a connection between original authentic Christianity through Gnosticism to Heidegger; and (2) that 2-3-74 was this particular experience; viz: the inauthentic state that Heidegger describes is the thrown-ness fremd that Gnosticism describes; there follows, then, a series of dire transformations by the
person trying to cope; I comprehend this as flight and evasion from fate (heimarmene), which is a sense that this alien state/world into which one has been thrown torments now and eventually kills (causes nonbeing, das nicht). The unconscious apperception of this creates angst (dread). This running to evade nonbeing manifesting itself as fate generates a pressure time, in which—by which—the person is driven more than driving; that is, he both runs and is made to run; he is caused to flee more than volitionally fleeing . Thus there is caused an endless process of becoming that never turns into being itself; there is no true now—he is projected always into a dreaded next; he is not really here and now for him; he must run into the future and yet paradoxically away from the future; he both runs toward and away from . Thus he is split . Part of him reaches inauthentically into the future to monitor it for peril—he cannot afford ever to ignore the future since it contains his fate which will kill him—and part of him looks away from the future for the same reason; this split may be the basis of schizophrenia . He must both notify himself of what he sees in the future and obscure what he sees from himself . This is another version of the split . But worst of all is—not that he must involve himself continually in the future out of apprehension, while also avoiding it, fearing to move into it, trying in fact to halt time (since time contains his fate) but he fails to be in the now, which is where reality is, and this is what most inhibits Sein; he has to be eternally becoming because he must extend himself eternally into the not yet . What I see in all this is that his sense that this alien world he has been thrown into will eventually ineluctably annihilate him is correct and he knows it is correct; this is not a delusion, this sense of impending destruction that will take away what little being he has . That time might increase or even complete his being does not occur to him because (and here the Gnostic perception is vital) this is an alien world into which he has been thrown against his will; i.e., he is helpless: he did not decide to be here, and the more he reaches frantically into the future (while simultaneously running from the future) the faster time flows
The introjection of Christ into the system is certainly the epitome of the adding of ex nihilo newness, of revitalizing creation as if from outside . Thus the term Christ has to refer to any and all newness choices wherever and whenever they occur; Christ is the zero-one binary disjunctive event per se, and so is always now and always here . We see it and understand that we see (and experience) Christ, and this is newness, re-creation (in an unending process of creation). Christ never arises/occurs as a result of the past, as an effect of antecedent causes; he is always born from outside . Hence his epiphany can never be induced or predicted (by definition). Christ is that which does not follow mechanically: he always invades world . To see, then, that Causality is not observed, that the effect is in fact not an effect at all—of its Cause—but is ex nihilo new is to see—literally, not symbolically—Christ . Hence where there is Christ it is always the case that there has been
something acting on it, intruding on it, invading it, from outside.
Without these periodic insertions the system would run down; it would lose shape, organization and vitality . Cause-and-effect, then, taken in itself, is a losing game . The only thing that Christ can be said to be a result of—Christ as an event in the reality field—is the need of this event . It is physically, mechanically causeless; it is absolutely teleological . Efficient causation has no bearing on it and will never yield it up . (Here Pierre Teilhard de Chardin is totally wrong: world is not spontaneously converging into the Point Omega; what he calls Point Omega
[ 84:8] Here is the puzzle of VALIS . In VALIS I say, I know a madman who imagines that he saw Christ; and I am that madman . But if I know that I am a madman I know that in fact I did not see Christ . Therefore I assert nothing about Christ . I say only that I am not mad . But if I say only that, then I have made no mad claim; therefore I am not mad . And the regress begins again and continues forever . Something has been asserted, but what is it? Does it have to do with Christ or only with myself? This paradox was known in antiquity; the pre-Socratics propounded it . A man says ,
[ 90:1] 10 Enclosed is a carbon of what may be a resolution of my seven years of attempting to construct a model of reality; by reality
Hartshorne—pantheism—the EB macro . A. N. Whitehead's process deity . * We are within it (the MMSK), as interconnections, but organic model is incorrect . It is a signaling system, mutually adjusting (this is what Pythagoras saw). 0-1 flicker rate (misinterpreted by me as time frames); actually it's binary . Tries out a false move (0), then corrects to 1 which is actualized in/as the next discrete frame . Has the effect of separate frames due to the off-on pulsation; discrete: isn't/is, nonbeing/being . The system shuts off every trillionth of a second (0). These are decisions . After each off (0) when it switches back on to 1 the frame
While it's off, reality ceases to be . When it comes back on it is slightly different . It (the system) doesn't transmit a zero bit; it (the system) ceases to be . This is when it makes a tentative move which had been canceled in favor of a better move; at every junction (trillionth of the second, flicker rate) it discards an inferior move in favor of a better one; hence Leibniz's view that
( this is a rapid selection process). This is how a computer works . The zero position is the void; hence when I conceive of God as Valis I am only getting the 1; I need also the void, the zero . To comprehend/apperceive/envision the void is to envision the other phase (zero phase) of the flicker binary pulsation, the sum of the two phases being the totality . Thus the Muslims are correct; the universe is destroyed every day (actually every trillionth of the second )
11 But what is interesting to me is that the way I conceive of this, all its decisions are made during the spaces that we are totally unaware of . It comes back on, back into being, back to the 1 phase when it has tried out a faulty solution and has substituted better (the best possible?) instead, which is the next time frame.
All of a sudden a titanic idea (insight?) has struck me . Valis was out side me in or as the external reality field; and Valis was in me, in my mind, blended with my mind, or, perhaps, even as my mind . What if the true situation is: this is what is meant by Christ consciousness and it works this way: Christ enters you (never mind at this point how; up the optic nerve or some kind of alchemical hierarchy of opposites, etc., etc .); anyhow, this Christ consciousness which is in fact the Second Advent makes it possible for the first time in human history for human beings to discard the modem of causation (which I have shown, at least to my own satisfaction, dates back to Babylon, is in fact the astral determinism, or Fate or ananke, etc., of the ancient world) as the basic ontological structuring category—by which world is ordered, arranged, understood—and this Christ consciousness permits (again for the first time in human history) a much more accurate and acutely qualitatively different experience of reality...in which causality is replaced by an understanding of, apperception of, realization of, whatever, of what I call binary forking decision-making, a choosing system, the no-yes choice exercised volitionally, sentiently; this was always the case with world-in-itself (Kant's Ding-an-sich) but there was no way by which humans could apperceive (comprehend, envision) it before . And this radically transformed experience (Dasein) of reality, a way of being-in-the-world, of participating in shaping world (the observer participant), had to wait until such discoveries and realizations as quantum mechanics, indeterminacy, unified field theory, plus Taoism—all that good new stuff such as Capra talks about...but anyhow, the leap across to this new way of Dasein is the second advent, and what occurs in our minds, our brains, our heads; and yet (paradoxically) it refers to something actually out there
Okay; I have one final thing to say and herewith I rest my case, trium phantly . My binary forking, which I have already said is an indeterminate element entering what always before was conceived of as causality (under various names, such as astral determinism): what is this if not the two slit phenomenon familiar in subatomic physics, which is the very essence of the indeterminate factor in reality! * It is known to us scientifically only on a subatomic level . Yet I say (I think I say) I have perceived this as the very basis of reality per se, the reality process of change, of flux, of all cause and effect at all levels, micro and macro . What I have been calling binary forking choosing but at a larger level, and it is a level that embraces all change . I am saying, some kind of mentational volitional sentient mind or mindoid entity—perhaps that of the total system itself—has some kind of steering or governing involvement as to which of the two slits is the selected one at each of these forkings . This may be linked to Pauli's synchronicity; it is acausal but ubiquitous and genuine and important . Here we turn to A.N . Whitehead's definition of process deity
[ 90:31] What I have achieved during these past seven years is to deepen and augment my mental ability to conceive of and comprehend what in 3-74 I perceived, and, ultimately, this is an apprehension, a comprehension, of God, of the divine nature and being . [... ]
is my way of envisioning what I experienced; it is my model which I am able, first, to summon up, and then, finally, to contemplate . Thus through it and in it I have God in me, as a mental construct of my own devising; but it is a devising derived from and rooted in experience; it is not imaginary: it is an interpretation of what I construe to be the case . It is reality incorporated into me, reality at the highest level at which I am able to understand it . Here my ability to understand reaches its limit . This all has been a vast effort . I am not concerned with traditional definitions of God, attributions and doctrines and creeds and dogmas; I am concerned with the conception I have arduously arrived at based on experience . My conception does justice to my experience, it is the best I can do . * It turns an otherwise in comprehensible encounter into a coherent image or model . This has been my task . Whether it is true or not depends on what you mean by true . It does justice to my experience; in that sense it is true . What if the experience itself is not true? To me that question is unintelligible; it is my experience: it belongs to me, is a part of me, and by construing a model adequate to it I make it a permanent part of me, not something that escapes . If my model works, if it is an adequate representation, I can by means of it convert it back into something like the original experience, so it is an encoding, an informational analog of that experience (to the degree that I have been successful). * I am a device on which God renders an impression, hopefully a permanent impression; it will be permanent if—and to the degree that—I function correctly . It is not a doctrine or even a theory that I am fabricating; it is an impression, a change in me as to what I am . I have become not the same, due to what happened, and this has been a task, an act stretching over years on my part . I want to be different because of what I saw; I want to be changed as much as possible (without, of course, falsifying what happened). The last thing I want out of that experience is to be the same as I was prior to it . And I can only change insofar as I comprehend that experience; and I can only comprehend it (as I say) by actively building an inner, adequate, appropriate model (of what happened). So this is not a passive rendering . This is an artistic, spiritual, conceptual task involving years of work . My conception grows; it is not static . As it grows I change . This is what I want: to thus and thereby be changed . This is what I have devoted myself to; this is my purpose for existing; it is what I want to do—like the binary choosing of the system my work on my model is cumulative . I choose; I discard; I perpetually arborize and reticulate: I build . I am very happy . I sense and grasp and perceive the no-yes dialectic that continually results in higher syntheses (which is what Jacob Boehme understood); I understand God in process, God perpetually choosing and re jecting :
so that he surpasses himself in an act at each new stage . (
12 as Beethoven wrote; the foundation of creation is to choose, to reject, to choose again: Boehme's dialectic ceaselessly at work, blinking off-on-off-on .) Dio: creating begins with an unvoiced no, not a yes.
It resembles what Heraclitus said about the necessity of discerning true reality by a process something like guessing a riddle or translating from a foreign language into one's own; that although men have the capacity to do so, they do not . This week I was, that one afternoon, back in the world of space; I don't know how I did it...and then I was back here under the power of tyrannical, destructive time once more . And I don't know how that happened either . Someone must teach us how to do this or else do it for us . I who know about the Kingdom, who knows it is right here—even I can't find my way (back) to it . Yet my binary model of the universe apparently calls for it, specifies its existence . It must be, it must truly be, that Christ does not in fact penetrate—invade—the workings of the universe but, rather, invades our perception of the workings of the universe, the in ner representation that the Cartesians showed we experience as world; this (as I said before) is Christ as Christ consciousness: the occlusion is not lifted from the world—it was never in world—but from us: it is in us . In my recent dream the spinner, the little boy, went blind; the sun itself did not go out; it was still shining but he could not see it . He
[ 90:6A] I can't help believing that the brief return of that Other World last week, that other way of being-in-world that I associate with 2-74 to 2-75, what I call the Palm Tree Garden, or as I now term it, the spatial realm, is connected with this being Easter week (or it was; today is Easter Sunday, so it was last week). That entire week is holy to the Christian; it begins with Palm Sunday which reperforms Jesus's entry into Jerusalem . And I had just about time—literally exactly at that time—worked out—upon rereading Chains...Web
At the time that I found myself back in the purely spatial realm, I supposed that it was because I had upped my dosage of Sinequan, but that is absolutely not likely . Let us consider the exact circumstances . It was Tuesday, the day the space shuttle returned . The night before, Monday night, something strange happened to me; I burned out . I could not think in complete sentences; I'd begin a sentence of thought and it would end in the middle . It was as if I'd used up all my thoughts, as if there are only a finite number and I had come to the last one; there literally were no more left in me . I had to go to bed early—which was fine, because then Tuesday I was able readily to arise early to watch the shuttle's safe return . Now, this absolutely total exhaustion of thoughts in me somehow seems to me related to the phosphene graphics trip; the common factor is the using up of time, a running out of time—i.e., process . I had, as in 1974, come to the end in some real and perhaps even ontological sense; mentally I had in fact died . Yet the next day I found myself in the magic spatial world of total freedom, a world of infinite extension . What I am saying is that this year , 1981, I relived, although to a lesser degree, the series of experiences of 1974—relived them during holy week (from Palm Sunday to Easter Sunday). It was during this period that my stupendous conception of the binary switching system came to me . I remember that I had said to Jeanette at Brentwood that—O Dio—"I have lost my artistic vision"—the dream about the child, the spinner, going blind! This represented spiritual death, and a logic to Christ's passion and crucifixion! And then rebirth occurred . And again, as in 1974 (this is really incredible, simply incredible) I got a terrifying letter that caused me to phone the FBI . So here are the themes of holy week: suffering (exhaustion) and death, and then rebirth; rebirth
Several aspects point to this as genuine . (1) The mental and spiritual exhaustion I experienced on Monday night was unique; I remember telling Doris that I had only undergone something like it due to drug abuse . It was, then, qualitatively different from mere fatigue, even enormous fatigue . It ended in a clear and evident death . (2) The Spinner dream which anticipated this very event, the loss of vision by the Spinner (i.e., Spinner as writer; he can no longer narrate). (3) The murderous letter . (4) The brief period on Tuesday in the spatial realm that I had only a little while before (a few days) figured out was essentially connected with Christianity . (5) The sudden, unexpected and unprecedented completion of my artistic vision on Wednesday night, the night of the day the letter came; this, too, was not a quantitative event; it was ontologically different from anything I had ever experienced before (like the dying of my vision Monday night); and: it was based on revelation of the forking and the tentative zero firing, a sleep revelation . So I suffered and died, but after I died I was resurrected in terms of my world—the spatial world—and in terms of my vision: my binary switching model of the universe, which I have later recognized as a model of the restored universe, restored by Christ; and I even identify this Dasein, this worldview, as Christ consciousness
[ 90:13A] This is a very different view of deity than has ever been put forth before (except perhaps by Jacob Boehme). For example, do these zero branchings add up to long chains of provisional realities, realities—perhaps even whole worlds or versions of worlds—subject to later retroactive annulment? And if so, do we encounter them, which is to say, do we live in them but then forget it, our memory being canceled out along with the worlds themselves? I conceive of the system switching on, off, on, off, the off consisting of what I call the zero phase of the binary flicker; I also say that it is during these off or 0 phases that the system does its thinking . What else goes on at the same time, if anything? Is there a sort of parity counter world to our own, perhaps invested with some kind of semi-reality that holds up only so long as the system takes to make up its mind and decide? Oddly, interestingly, this all seems to correspond with the doubts and premises of my ten-volume meta-novel :
[ 90: E-8] Ghastly dream [...] A family on an old farm . The children are (called) the Spinners . The very ground itself is contaminated, poisoned, with (heavy) metals, so the children, the Spinners ,
Interpretation: the Spinners are immortals who came here and were poisoned (heavy metal) and lost what I call the third eye (represented by the magnifying glass). The sun is Christ . Thus they, we, can no longer read the sacred writing (of Scripture):
( divine revelation) not because God stopped sending it but because we have gone blind to it . Somehow I regained my sight in 3-74 and could read the sacred Scriptures in/as Tears . Therefore
