Let it go . Perhaps it'll play itself out; they do sometimes . I sat attentively still while he gave me the most moving plea for my own efficiency, my rationality, my status as a human being . He ended by saying anxiously, Well—
( interrupted this damned fool once again )
I nodded, picturing myself as Individual Man . The woman's work What we want (he said, getting into stride )
( here he smiled )
( braced for the peroration )
I rose to my feet . Excuse me, but business—
he said in heat, this confused and irritable man.
( he giggles )
'everyone and his husband' or 'everyone will be entitled to his own abortion '
( he roars )
( he said )
and he winked broadly to show he bore me no ill-will . This is the time for me to steal away, leaving behind half my life's blood and promises, promises, promises; but you know what? I just can't do it . It's happened too often . I have no reserves left . I sat down, smiling brilliantly in sheer anticipation, and the dear man hitched his chair nearer . He looks uneasy and avid . Sure, Good! Oh yes, Oh no!
He laughed delightedly . So-so, I suppose, Oh sure, Get away ,
he mutters in agony, Look, I say, grinning uncontrollably ,
he cries, shutting his eyes ,
This we can cure! —as they say about pneumonia . I think the J's will have sense enough to stay out of it . Boss was muttering something angry about his erection so, angry enough for two, I produced my own—by this I mean that the grafted muscles on my fingers and hands pulled back the loose skin, with that characteristic, itchy tickling, and of course you are wise; you have guessed that I do not have Cancer on my fingers but Claws, talons like a cat's but bigger, a little more dull than wood brads but good for tearing . And my teeth are a sham over metal . Why are men so afraid of the awful intimacies of hate? Remember, I don't threaten . I don't play . I always carry firearms . The truly violent are never without them . I could have drilled him between the eyes, but if I do that, I all but leave my signature on him; it's freakier and funnier to make it look as if a wolf did it . Better to think his Puli went mad and attacked him . I raked him gaily on the neck and chin and when he embraced me in rage, sank my claws into his back . You have to build up the fingers surgically so they'll take the strain . A certain squeamishness prevents me from using my teeth in front of witnesses—the best way to silence an enemy is to bite out his larynx . Forgive me! I dug the hardened cuticle into his neck but he sprang away; he tried a kick but I wasn't there (I told you they rely too much on their strength); he got hold of my arm but I broke the hold and spun him off, adding with my nifty, weighted shoe one another bruise on his limping kidneys . Ha ha! He fell on me (you don't feel injuries in my state) and I reached around and scored him under the ear, letting him spray urgently into the rug; he will stagger to his feet and fall, he will plunge fountainy to the ground; at her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down; at her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down dead . Jael . Clean and satisfied from head to foot . Boss is pumping his life out into the carpet . All very quiet, oddly enough . Three J's in a terrible state, to judge from their huddling together; I can't read their hidden faces . Will Natalie come in? Will she faint? Will she say ,
Who will own her now? You get monomaniacal on adrenalin.
I whispered to the J's, herding them toward the door, buzzing and humming, the stuff still singing in my blood . The stupidity of it . The asininity of it . I love it, I love it . Come on! I said . Pushing them out the door, into the corridor, out and into the elevator, past the fish swimming in the aquatic wall, evil, svelte manta-rays and groupers six feet long . Poor fish! No business done today, God damn, but once they get that way there's no doing business with them; you have to kill them anyway, might as well have fun . There's no standing those non-humans at all, at all . Jeannie is calm . Joanna is ashamed of me . Janet is weeping . But how do you expect me to stand for this all month? How do you expect me to stand it all year? Week after week? For twenty years? Little male voice says: It Was Her Menstrual Period . Perfect explanation! Raging hormonal imbalances . His ghostly voice :
I said, putting on my sham teeth over my steel ones.
That's The Strong One: smart girl . Home?
There is a pretense on my own side that we are too refined to care, too compassionate for revenge—this is bullshit, I tell the idealists.
My palace and gardens (said I) I acquired late in life when I became rich and influential; before that I lived in one of the underground cities among the damnedest passel of neighbors you ever saw, sentimental Arcadian communes—underground, mind you! — whose voices would travel up the sewer pipes at all the wrong times of day and night, shrill sacrifices to love and joy when you want to sleep, ostentatious shuddering whenever I appeared in the corridor, wincing and dashing back inside to huddle together like kittens, conscious of their own innocence, and raise their pure young voices in the blessedness of community song . You know the kind :
That was my first job, impersonating one of the Manlanders' police (for ten minutes). By job I don't mean what I was sent to do last night, that was open and legitimate, but a job
A barbarian woman fell in love with me . It's terrible to see that slavishness in someone else's eyes, feel that halo she puts around you, and know from your own person the nature of that eager deference men so often perceive as admiration . Validate me! she cried . Justify me! Raise me up! Save me from the others! (
she says, turning the mystic ring round and round on her finger ,
The day that I left I went out into the hills with a few friends for the Faery ceremony lost
Now the other party to the incident had manifested his essential nature, too; he was Prick—but being Prick is not a bad thing . In fact, he had gotten away with something (possibly what she had lost
When you grow up as an old-fashioned girl, you always remember that cozy comfort: Daddy getting angry a lot but Mummy just sighs . When Daddy says ,
Mommy never shouted ,
I got up, tickled him with the edge of my claw, joined them at the door . Closing it.
This is one of the key words that the house understands; the central computer will transmit a pattern of signals to the implants in his brain and he will stretch out obediently on his mattress; when I say to the main computer Sleep, Leucotomized, I said (to the J's). Don't, Well? Well ,
cried the distressed child, and then in anxious tears ,
said his indulgent Daddy ,
There's the burden of knowledge . There's the burden of compassion . There's seeing all too clearly what's in their eyes as they seize your hands, crying cheerily ,
Men's shaky egos have a terrible appeal to the mater dolorosa . At times I am seized by a hopeless, helpless longing for love and reconciliation, a dreadful yearning to be understood, a teary passion for exposing our weaknesses to each other . It seems intolerable that I should go through life thus estranged, keeping it all to my guilty self . So I try to explain in the softest, least accusing way I can, but oddly enough men don't behave the way they do on the Late Late Show, I mean those great male stars in their infancy in the Jean Arthur or the Mae West movies: candid, clear-eyed, and fresh, with their unashamed delight in their women's strength and their naive enjoyment of their own, beautiful men with beautiful faces and the joyfulness of innocents, John Smith or John Doe . These are the only men I will let into Whileaway . But we have fallen away from our ancestors' softness and clarity of thought into corrupt and degenerate practices . When I speak now I am told loftily or kindly that I just don't understand, that women are really happy that way, that women can better themselves if they want to but somehow they just don't want to, that I'm joking, that I can't possibly mean what I say, that I'm too intelligent to be put in the same class as women ,
Politics is baseball . Politics is football . Politics is X winning losing.
Being told it was all right
( said I, looking in the mirror )
( Jeez, new pimples )
Alas, it was never meant for us to hear . It was never meant for us to know . We ought never be taught to read . We fight through the constant male refractoriness of our surroundings; our souls are torn out of us with such shock that there isn't even any blood . Remember: I didn't and don't want to be a feminine
But her brother's a tough little bruiser (two identical damp, warm lumps). At three and a half I mixed sour cream and ice cubes on the window sill to see if they would turn into ice cream; I copied the words hot cold
I couldn't tell the difference between gold silver night gown evening gown, so I imagined all the ladies of the neighborhood getting together in their beautiful night gowns —which were signs of rank—and making all the decisions about our lives . They were the government . My mother was President because she was a school teacher and local people deferred to her . Then the men would come home from work (wherever that was; I thought it was like hunting) and lay the bacon at the ladies' feet, to do with as they wished . The men were employed by the ladies to do this . Laura Rose, who never swam underwater a whole month in summer camp with goggles on or slept in the top bunk, fancying herself a Queen in lonely splendor or a cabin-boy on a ship, has no such happy memories . She's the girl who wanted to be Genghis Khan . When Laura tried to find out who she was, they told her she was different and that's a hell of a description on which to base your life; it comes down to either Not-me Convenient-for me and what is one supposed to do with that? What am I to do? (she says) What am I to feel? Is supposed spoused different deteriorate
I first met Laur a few years ago when I was already grown up . Cinnamon and apples, ginger and vanilla, that's Laur . Now having Brynhildic fantasies about her was nothing—I have all sorts of extraordinary fantasies which I don't take seriously—but bringing my fantasies into the real world frightened me very much . It's not that they were bad in themselves, but they were Unreal and therefore culpable; to try to make Real what was Unreal was to mistake the very nature of things; it was a sin not against conscience (which remained genuinely indifferent during the whole affair) but against Reality, and of the two the latter is far more blasphemous . It's the crime of creating one's own Reality, of preferring oneself
Goodbye to mannequins in store windows who pretend to be sympathetic but who are really nasty conspiracies, goodbye to hating Mother, goodbye to the Divine Psychiatrist, goodbye to The Girls, goodbye to Normality, goodbye to Getting Married, goodbye to The Supernaturally Blessed Event, goodbye to being Some Body, goodbye to waiting for Him (poor fellow!), goodbye to sitting by the telephone, goodbye to feebleness, goodbye to adoration, goodbye Politics, hello politics . She's scared but that's all right . The streets are full of women and this awes her; where have they all come from? Where are they going? (If you don't mind the symbolism .) It's stopped raining but mist coils up from the pavement . She passes a bridal shop where the chief mannequin, a Vision in white lace and tulle, sticks out her tongue at Jeannine.
We munch in silence, slowly, the way Whileawayans eat: munch, munch, gulp . Munch . Gulp, gulp, gulp, Munch . Meditatively . It's pleasant to eat . Janet screws up her eyes, yawns, and stretches athletically, leaning over the back of her chair and working her bent arms first to this side, then to that . She ends up by pounding on the table . Mm!
says Jeannine, very self-possessed and elegant, her fork in mid-air . So? Well? Jeannine?
Jael goes admiringly tsk tsk and makes a rueful face that means: my friend, you are really going it.
says Jeannine in her high, sweet voice . See? No, No, said Janet dryly ,
said Alice Reasoner.
Joanna Russ, a former New Yorker, was born February 22 , 1937 . She received her B.A . in English at Cornell University and her M.P.A . in Playwriting and Dramatic Literature at Yale Drama School . Ms. Russ has taught creative writing at universities and SF workshops (such as the famous Clarion workshops with Robin Scott Wilson) since 1966, and recently taught at the State University of New York at Binghamton, N.Y., where she still makes her home . Joanna Russ has written over forty short stories for a wide range of science fiction and trade magazines, journals and anthologies . In 1972, she won the Nebula Award (best short story) for
