This gives a very precise account of what salvation and restoration consist of and also how it is done; and, moreover, it is (not resembles
And this interface would be precisely the Acts -Tears—i.e., Apocalypse—lens-grid . So: QED . This is why when I saw world transformed—2-74 itself—although it was radically changed, it was absolutely comprehensible, and this is the whole point; world as it had been was enigmatic and in fact Fremd; world changed was both comprehensible and familiar: it was my world . Hence I say part-whole compatibility . But could this be a purely cognitive act and if so is it s (noesis)? [...] Because it looks to me that this is a purely cognitive act, it does create part-whole compatibility which leads via the
—a positive runaway! —to part-whole isomorphism, whereupon info of the whole arises parallel and acausally in the part: self-generating info as the basis of structure—negentropy—itself, by which the whole maintains itself as kosmos in the true sense: unified by affinity, not coercion or violence . The universal language is of course heard directly in (side) the mind of the person; this is the crucial index of part-whole isomorphism expressed in terms of info—info pertaining to the structure and not to anything outside it; thus the info pertains to itself; it is not only self-generating, it is the thing that it describes . This is precisely what The Book of Creation notes say :
With man, word and thought refer to object, but with God, thought, word, writing of word and thing are one and the same.
68 And this is of course the plasmate! It is info, but it as info does not pertain to—point to—anything other than itself; thus King Felix does not point to the Savior; it is the info-stage of the life form Savior itself, just as St. Luke is the info stage of the world (the world of Luke-Acts
AI voice and plasmate: one and the same . Info metabolism.
My God, the plasmate does crossbond with the human and replicate . But it's not an info life form; it's the metabolism of the whole (i.e., the true kosmos; this is how it can be kosmos). The plasmate is not in reality; no: reality is info . There's a crucial difference . This is why the mutual arrangement of objects is info or language.➊ Dynamically, in terms of activity, things are info—changing info.
VALIS is a very valuable book . Even though it doesn't explain why the universe is info it does say that it is (the why is: by being info it maintains its negentropy-level, i.e., its structure, expressed—as always—as/by info . It is true kosmos so it must maintain negentropic structure—hence info—throughout; if it ceases to, it ceases to be true kosmos and unity is lost in favor of atomized plurality . It is unitary precisely because it is info). So since we can't see the info we can see the structure, so we see plurality; when I saw Valis I saw unity, structure, hence info; what I was ulti mately seeing was kosmos (as field, as opposed to the atomists' discontinuous matter, which is anti-cosmos). This is both Plato and Pythagoras and totally Greek . It was lost (became extinct) after Parmenides—hence the fall . So the statement by the AI voice ,
In a sense, to see kosmos—i.e., unity—you must see arrangement syntactically, as I noted ultra supra . The linguistic connectives, not causal
But by this analysis, the AI voice's statements about the Savior must be veridical, since the statement (info) is the reality it pertains to; it is oxymoronic to speak of the possibility of this kind of info as false groove to music
[ 57: Q-33] With the return of the Eleatic continuum reality—instead of the discontinuous matter one—we will again be able to see God, literally; and this is the point of my exegesis . And I know that the continuum one is true—and the discontinuous matter one is not—because the AI voice said ,
When I was very little I used to see and experience space as real, palpable, thick.
So my continuum view was natural to me and had to be trained out of me, or else I saw that things did not in fact move (change) but only look different —i.e., no time had passed, in other words, I experience God and eternity, but had to learn to experience world and time instead, because everyone (else) said ,
[ 57: Q-34] It is the interface that is God, in Malebranche's system . God is not in the writing exactly, although the writing is Scripture (Torah). God is here already . Between . This is what happened with Luke that time, and with Tears when I saw the two word cypher, and with Jeannie . In a sense, then, this is not incarnation of all, but also it is: it is the universal language, as at Pentecost . To understand how it works you must know Malebranche . This of course is also how the Acts
[ 57: Q-36] Hypnopompic: pronunciation mark in dictionary: (based on the three S's: service, etc . )
I see a synthesis higher than anything I have ever seen before: the spirit—the finest parts—of Marxism, Christianity, Buddhism—and yet it is above all this; and out of me it draws the most noble drives and aspirations, the mystical and the urgently practical combined . It is as if the dialectic has achieved new heights, like nothing I have ever seen before . And he gives voice to and codifies the best in me, that up to now was inchoate . I never knew myself before now; my own nature was to me obscure . Everything in me at last takes shape . I utterly repudiate the policies of the regime but I turn—not inward—but to something so beautiful that I could not have imagined it.
I do not now act out of guilt or conscience or duty or sense of obligation or the Torah (law), but because my loving (Maitri) teacher who smiled down at me tells—instructs—me to . This is the highest truth of all: he, my tutelary spirit and mystagogue, Maitreya, is the AI voice—I hear and have long heard his voice . The AI voice is the Maitreya, and what he as my tutelary spirit and teacher tells me is dharma: the path/way/Tao . It is the path because it accords with truth; hence it is rational; thus I saw Maitreya break into our universe, he is the rational, it is the irrational; the two ages: he slept and now awakens . It is Sila, the voice of the universe and it is born among us . Creme is wrong; it is God; it is YHWH, and this is my secret . And yet he is Christ to the Christians, Krishna to the Hindus, etc . This is the most extraordinary miracle ever heard of, and it is real: it is no psychotronic
Sister . He (who?) comes to me as my sister who died . What does this mean? The ultimate restoration of what was lost . *
➊ The AI voice itself took me over—as in 3-74—and wrote sister.
CASTING PHILIP K. DICK as a prophet of the information planet is of necessity an entirely retroactive story . Yet it is a fiction that emerges, like many of Dick's novels about simulation, as profoundly true . Dick read Marshall McLuhan and Teilhard de Chardin, his fellow Prophets of the Digital Age; they likely never heard of him . Yet what smacks of downright prophecy in PKD is not limited to the content of his fiction; it extends to the feeling of reality-distortion induced by reading his work . PKD's fiction taps into shamanic powers to shape and bend consciousness and the realities that project from it . This same feeling, of being directly addressed by a bard, a storyteller, and a deeply suffering and profoundly honest human being across space and time, is one the Exegesis has for us in spades . Dick teaches us what it can feel like to be in an infoquake, like those the twenty-first century provides in such abundance . He offers us thought experiments for
When you begin reading the Exegesis, you undertake a quest with no shortcuts or cheat codes . The Exegesis is almost nine thousand pages long . read
In his ongoing practice of writerly contemplation, Dick discovers, again and again, the unity of all things, the level that integrates all of the fragments of our chaotic drama (what Dick, pointing to India, calls maya), and reveals our unique role in it . So too can we, perhaps through contagion, experience the same: the preposterous feeling that one gets when reading the Exegesis is that he is writing to each of us, uniquely and specifically . You were born to read the Exegesis, or at least some of it . This, he says, is the Mystery :
What are the Eleusian Mysteries? These took place in an annual ceremony in ancient Greece that dramatized the return of life each spring through the myths of Demeter and Persephone . Participants were sworn to secrecy, with violations punishable by death, but the Roman writer and politician Cicero wrote that the greatest achievement of ancient Athens was those
? The highest achievement of the Mysteries was for a participant to experience épopteia, or contemplation . Contemplation derives etymologically from
and what might be perceived is the true nature of the self in the context of Eternity . Dionysus, of course, is the god of drunkenness and vegetation and is frequently invoked by writers seeking to break the grip of our ordinary perception of fragmentation and chaos such that we might perceive
In the Exegesis we become intoxicated by a massive flow of language . In fact, while the sheer quantity of text produced for the Exegesis makes it comparable only to Ibn Arabi's fifteen-thousand-page modern edition of al-Futûhât al-makkiyya (Meccan Openings), Dick's arguments, diagrams, summaries, breakthroughs, and premature conclusions all put him, along with Arabi (a Muslim whose visions included Jesus and Moses) and the Mysteries, squarely within what Aldous Huxley called the Perennial Philosophy contemplative traditions at the core of all world religions . Samuel Taylor Coleridge—whose Kubla Khan was, like VALIS, influenced by the mystic traditions of both West and East—describes this as
If the computer age smithereens us in the transformation of our planet into the digital bits of information, Dick's unique remix of the Perennial Philosophy teaches us how he at least periodically found what Pamela Jackson and Jonathan Lethem call an inkling
In other words, while the Exegesis is certainly a quantitative curiosity in the archives of our planet's extant philosophy and literature, the content and character of his quest are oddly traditional, and astonishingly effective . Dick's writing during this period is an act of courageous and absurd synthesis of the diverse and sundry traditions that make up Huxley's Perennial Philosophy as well as anthropologist Michael Harner's notion of Core Shamanism
Both Huxley and Harner treat these core lineages of the Perennial Philosophy as traditions of practice . Initiates at Eleusius had to fast and prepare extensively for their ceremonies; one trains for the insights of these traditions with the intensity and intention of an aging boxer preparing for the fight of his life after a long layoff . The Exegesis offers a reader the sensation of being a unique and individual participant in what Dick, referring to the Roman writer Plotinus's formulation, called the One . the One, one must do more than understand these maps of reality; one must in fact intentionally experiment with them oneself and seek to enact what Lethem and Jackson call
( Lama Govinda) Dick offers a cognitive and spiritual workout of epic proportions . Through the practice of writing thousands of pages, PKD was able to periodically dissolve himself into language—what he calls the Logos, the Greek term for both speech reason . The process reveals an ecstatic quality, akin to the union with the divine of Sufi dervishes who dance until they can't remember the difference between themselves and the dance . Core Shamanism, Harner writes, features practices designed to induce this experience of
Harner himself first learned of the possibility of these experiences in his fieldwork with shamanic intoxicants such as ayahuasca, undertaken in order to understand the worldview of his informants . This may suggest to us how PKD achieved his effects: in addition to
And while the Exegesis is hardly monotonous in the sense intended by Harner, it is astonishingly persistent: each page offers some new variation on the theme of aha . The theme is: total knowledge is only possible through the paradoxical acceptance of total mystery, an erasure of everything we think we know . Pointing to a mystery integrates PKD thoroughly into this lineage, with the Exegesis his Stairway to Eleusis
Following along with him, step by step, insight by insight, just might train us in contemplating our own inner voice as we learn to somehow share a planet on the brink . Twentieth-century British author Evelyn Underhill writes of the long lineage of this voice perceived in silence, which recurs through the history of the Perennial Philosophy—through William Blake's experience of the divine as an intellectual fountain, through French contemplative Lucie-Christine's perception of a synesthetic voice that was at once a
through Julian of Norwich who heard and saw the godhead in the
And with the voice comes ecstasy: the literal etymology of ecstasy beside oneself . PKD indeed writes in ecstasy—he is beside himself
3 . Peter Fitting, a leftist literary critic . His most important article on Dick ,
4 . Arthur Koestler (1905–1983) was a Hungarian author on science and the paranormal . The quotation is from his Harper's article
13 . Philip Purser ,
19 . Ellison is quoting the song
32 . From William Wordsworth's Lucy.
36 . Angus Taylor was the author of the 1973 pamphlet
40 . Mu is Japanese for not nothing
43 . Abraham Maslow (1908–1970) was an American psychologist famous for his concept of peak experience and the notion that humans are driven by a
46 . A variation of the fish sign that Dick glimpsed during one of his visionary episodes . Whale's Mouth is also the name of the colonist planet in Dick's 1964 story (and 1966 novel )
49 . In his Principles of Psychology (1890), American psychologist William James characterizes the world of sense impressions as
50 . Arthur Deikman was a psychologist who wrote about deautomized
52 . Dick explains one of these early childhood references in a February 27 , 1975, letter to Claudia Bush not included here :
56 . The following is prefaced by a handwritten dedication and epigraph :
58 . In his 1967 story
77 . Rollo May (1909–1994) was an American existential psychologist whose edited anthology Existence included material by Ludwig Binswanger, the source for Dick's notion of the
