At the time I thought it might be Proust's Within a Budding Grove, but it was not; however, there was a long word similar to Budding Grove.
So I knew by the first part of the day yesterday that I was looking for a large blue hardback book—very large and long, according to some dreams, endlessly long, in fact—with the final word of the title being Grove and a word before it like Budding.
A big blue book whose title ends in the word grove and before this is a word starting with a B Paul holding up galley proofs for me to read, which I am told consist of a sintonic ,
Well, Claudia, let's take the above five in terms of what I found in my funky reference books . Now, ESP has been described as
In a later book, Aeneas meets Queen Dido ,
( Will Durant's Caesar and Christ, [>] ). Note: Blissful Groves.
So we have here (1) the Cyclops, (2) the sibyl, and (3) the Blissful Groves
Now, Claudia, I never knew any of these things . And it certainly is odd how much are from a single strand of myth from Roman and Greek times: right down to specific Greek words such as Syntonos, or however it's spelled in Greek . Also I dreamed the word ulna one time, as I mentioned in the form Sadasa ulna . Well, I looked it up and it is Latin for elbow, but also it can stand for a measure of length, and the citation in my complete Latin dictionary for that use is Virgil's The Aeneid, book III . The word ulna
So this could be placed under the rubric ESP
In April of this year when I was in the hospital for high blood pressure (caused really by these dreams) I met a lawyer and told him at length about the hits on my house . His theory after careful thought was that it was most likely that they were after papers concerning Jim Pike, religious material Jim had given me or told me before his death . In at least one of my dreams, Claudia, I was Jim Pike; I know that because I saw my mother
But the state of things is so dreary here in the U.S.—they say the elderly and poor are eating canned dog food, now, to stay alive, and the McDonald hamburgers are made from cows' eyes . The radio also says that today when Charles Colson, the President's former counsel, went into jail he still wore his Richard M. Nixon tie clasp.
Any lying language creates at once in a single stroke a pseudo-reality, contaminating reality, until the Lie is undone . As soon as one lies one becomes separated from reality . One has introduced the falsification oneself . There is one thing no one can force you to do: to lie . One only lies for one's advantage . It is based on an inner decision invisible to the world . No one ever says to you ,
Sometime in the past, about three months ago, I must have become aware for the first time in my life that the cause of my misery was the Lie and that the enemy, the real enemy, was a liar . I remember somewhere along the line saying loudly ,
Even scarier is that this man, before his death, believed that those who are dead can come across to those who are alive . He was sure his own son who had recently died was doing this with him . Now this man is dead and it would seem he is coming across
The implication in Ubik that they were all dead is because their world devolved in strange ways, projections onto their environment of their dwindling psyches . This does not carry across to my own life, nor did it to Jim's when his son came across.
They write books about this sort of thing . Fiction books, like The Exorcist . Which are later revealed to be
Maybe I should write a book about it and later on reveal that it was
Well then we have here a sort of time travel, rather than someone who is dead coming across
Come to think of it, it is the memories laid down since 1964 which have dimmed . I recall saying to Tessa that it seemed to me that precisely ten years of memory was gone . That would take it right back to that day in—my god, almost ten years to the day—when I rolled my VW in Oakland on a warm Spring Saturday . Perhaps what happened that day was that from the physical and mental shock an alternate personality was struck off; I did have extraordinary amnesia during the months afterward . So that might make an excellent hypothesis: the trauma of that auto accident started a secondary personality into being, and it remained until mid-March of this year, at which time for reasons unknown it faded out and my original real
Perhaps this is another Bridey Murphy.7 I've brought back to being active a personality
Undoubtedly, from internal evidence it appears to be the past, the archaic past, breaking through . But it's not chaotic . It's highly systemized, sort of like the left hemisphere of the Greek-speaking Roman citizen . It seemed to me that the preoccupations of this individual were indeed those of Jim Pike, and thus if you allow all prior steps in this chain of inferential thought to stand, you arrive logically at the final step that Jim Pike broke through to me
After one dream, in which I saw a sibyl who was a cyclops, I decided after doing research that it was the Cumaean sibyl who had seized hold of me, and not anyone from present times or the other side.
The first was my ex-wife Nancy's handwriting . Then in printing, very small, this :
What the water-soluble vitamins did, then, was to make it possible for me to get in touch with myself, which when most people do that they get in touch with repressed material in the unconscious, usually their real feelings, all of it inchoate as the unconscious has to be in order to stay unconscious . But my unconscious has a predilection toward esoteric, exotic and archaic words—exact and precise ones at that . Much of the printed material I see in my dreams has elaborate annotation in scrawly blue pen or pencil in the margins . Someone has been copyediting it, cutting out unnecessary words . My book-writing unconscious has a concise style . As one would expect from over 23 years of professional work, cutting and pruning, looking up words in the dictionary . I have so to speak a real pro for an unconscious . It's a fine style but it isn't mine . I'd never write
or, as it expressed a vital thought in my sleep once by saying ,
It makes an exact point with no regard for literary style, a higher method of expression with the intent to convey its meaning above all . Therefore it resorts to such strikingly enigmatic words as syntonic ,
Partly this must come from the fact that it has available to it my complete and entire memory, every word, every thought, everything I ever saw, read, heard, knew . My conscious memory—my conscious vocabulary—is only the tip of the iceberg . And yet it seems highly structured; obsessed in fact by the theological disputations and dogmas and highly abstract and abstruse concepts and theories of Rome . As Robert Graves once said ,
The one odd dream that I had, in which I picked up most distant, the smallest, weakest signal—from a star, star-information, sidereal...what I heard seemed to resemble, as an analog, an AI System, not a computer, and female in tone . Reasonable and female . This was a small system, though; it knew almost nothing, not even where it was (the
The past, then . Or the future . Another star . An alternate world . the other side in some way . For instance, it made me aware of God from the very start, but never of Christ; I deduce from this that it is non-Christian and probably pre-Christian . Actually I can't catch in it any influences since the Greek Logos Doctrine . Which could be Iranian . India to Iran to Greece and then possibly (but not necessarily) to Rome . One night I had a short bitter dream in which I cried out in despair ,
I have no Savior . Then in fear at having said that I added, unconscious, which I've claimed this tutor to be, has available to it
except everything pertaining to events and concepts that arose after 100 A.D. That is an extraordinarily great restriction . Obviously, that is not in any sense that we know the term my unconscious ,
You know, I could if I wanted to make the most dramatic but speculative case, for fictional purposes I guess, reason that I was pulled back through time, back and back, to where It All Went Wrong, which would be where around 100 A.D . I, typifying everyone who went wrong perhaps, became a Christian.
the Vast Acting Living Intelligence System that creates decided.
I don't know why I'm speculating along like this, though, because in point of fact I've decided, by a process of deduction, who my tutor is . Asklepios, or one of his sons . A Greek physician, whose step-mother was the Cumaean sibyl, his father Apollo, at whose shrines
I can see me telling my therapist this.
she'll say when I go in, and I'll say ,
She'll say, Oh really?
Apollo's motto at Delphi was Know thyself ,
Although I don't have anything more to go on; it would seem to me that I—or my tutor—was musing on this whole situation, and in pithy Greek formalizing it . A latent form is emerging in me, buried perhaps by Apollo himself, when his son Asklepios was killed by the Kyklopes, so that his son's wisdom and skills, derived from Apollo, would continue on despite Asklepios' sudden death—remaining latent within the morphology of the Indo-European descendents of Asklepios, perhaps genetically handed down through his sons . (He had two .) Now, when needed, this crypte morphosis is emerging, again active; its external stimulating-triggering source being some aspect of the dreadful civic decline of our society, its falling into ruins.
( S. Lem, about Ubik .) Other gods of the past have at other times returned to life: Wotan in Germany, during the Nazis . Surely Apollo with his balanced wisdom, his clear healing harmony of opposites, his clear-headed self-knowledge and integrity—what better archetype or god, long slumbering, should be roused at this sad time? Of all the ancient buried deities Apollo is needed by us the most; we have seen enough of the politics of unreason ,
This would explain the photo
They're what people call the
... possibly they were influenced by Brahamic, Buddhist, Parsee [which is Zoroastrianism, PKD], Pythagorean and Cynic [search for the honest man, PKD] ideas that came to the crossroad of trade at Jerusalem.... They dwelt in homes owned by their community...[i.e., communistic ideas of property :
PKD]... they hoped that by piety, abstinence and contemplation they might acquire magic powers and foresee the future . Like most people of their time they believed in angels and demons, thought of diseases as possession by evil spirits, and tried to exorcise these by magical formulas; from their secret doctrine
The Essenes sent teachers to the various cities; these teachers concealed their Essene background and training . Jesus Christ is the best known example . (The Qumran Scrolls indicate he was indeed a secret Essene.
Jesus Christ, Claudia . Doesn't this fit together? I know it's true; I mean, I know now that what I've been seeing which I assumed was many sources, many doctrines, was and is the worldview and knowledge, the gnosis and secret wisdom, of the Essenes who favorably informed and educated and directed and influenced society from 2 A.D. on, and even before . A synthesis of all the really useful stuff from the Antique Classical Past—now alive again, e.g., in my head at night; it's in my head because I was Jim's friend and so forth, as I've said . From the Qumran Scrolls he got all this synthesis of the wisdom of Antiquity and then he died and then he came across
I will Xerox the Philip Purser in-depth interview with me that just appeared in the London Daily Telegraph magazine.13 Then you can see what a nitwit I appear to be to foreigners . Mr. Purser in his interview notes that when Tessa brings me some eggs to eat I offer him some (not out of the same dish, just ,
). I guess that's odd behavior . Eggs, too, are funny, evidently, since he comments on that.
Then the next night I heard the woman singing the rhymed couplet about
with the full choir behind her, again and again and again . I said to Tessa after the elevator dream ,
