Finally, I ask, what is the purpose of the push-pull inner-outer analogy feedback loop between the stations and the total brain (out of which illusory hypostatized worlds are generated)? Why, this is how it elaborates and builds successive, antecedent-subsuming more evolved stages of itself, working toward ultimate unity and complexity . Since there is nothing but it, it can only interact with its own parts—by definition nothing (ultimately) can exist outside it (although during the temporal flux process this is not true). It annexes (incorporates) at the expense of the not-yet-it (i.e., the not-yet-brain but still dead fossil). The push-pull process accomplishes (or is one way, the way which concerns and involves us) final unitary totality . As the push-pull takes place between a given cell, station, part, bit or Atman, and the total brain-so-far, that bit is hyped up to elevated—well, I guess for whatever it will serve as in the final unitary being, which is probably awake (sentient) throughout . It's as if an escalating thermal or ergic charge is generated by this mutual push-pull process; it is the brain firing through (along) its circuits and firing back in response—no energy escapes from the closed system (circuit) so the ergic tension just builds and builds . We experience this as involvement with what we construe to be the world.
[ 18:78] Regarding the factor of complexity of the volvox ,
Oh God, what have I stumbled onto? This is the basic cable—it's Crick and Watson's double helix again, and the ancient sign . Billions of these twisting interwoven conduits—it places a linkage in place, a bar or leg, a rigid shank, and then twists the flexible red and gold double helix filaments around it; it supports the twisting strands—it is material, they are—energy? They travel along supported by the linking bar . That means our material physical world—all its constituents—becomes mere rigid supports for cables that are not substantial which carry the messages and are the real business of the volvox Thomas is a former life of mine (of me) and I was Thomas . Thomas i.e., other than me, and
And, if (as it appears) he is in my head but
I'd say I possess—just in this alone—knowledge such as few humans have ever had, and experiences to match . [...] Perhaps my Onion
Okay—multiple personalities . Great . Fine—the literature is full of these cases . But with him living in another century? How can he be living
Obviously the many (plural) space-times are aspects projected onto and/or by (from) the matrix which is totally open
[ 18:84] I state: the passage of time since Acts
In Tears I set out to depict what really does exist, and I did so without my knowing it (so obviously Thomas wrote it): I depicted the world of Acts . It all dovetails . QED the content of Tears is the proof of all the above . Under epistemological attack, the world of Acts
Then the answer is: Thomas is not a former life of mine . I did not live once in Rome c. A.D. 45, Thomas is an immortal apostolic Christian, and Rome c. A.D. 45 is the real present world, * and Thomas co-inhabits my head, locked into the real world . Acts
So I am, so to speak, a front—a face—for an immortal, transtemporal secret early Christian who is operating—undoubtedly in conjunction with others like him—in contemporary history . This is behind-the-scenes stuff, thrilling and scary . I certainly see Thomas' hand or mind in my writing . Yes indeed, he is with me, not is me—in my head . But
I have even experienced the postmortem world, through Thomas: my 3-74 experience was all I thought it was.
[ 2:1] So Thomas is not a former me or a multiple personality . The single sentence last night (Someone else.
This opens the door to that which is beyond conception . Operating out of my head he is locked into the world of Acts . Here ends 4 years and 6 months of analysis and research . Time is unmasked as irreal; 1,900 years are disclosed as aspect of one underlying matrix; Tears and its Acts material is explained; my 27 years of writing the same themes over and over again fits into place; 2-74 and 3-74 is comprehensible, as is the overthrow of Nixon; the transtemporal constants have been explicated . When I got onto the volvox
[ 2:5] In my dream in Canada, Kathy said ,
[ 2:10] Voice :
[ 2:12] The only models for this that I've ever even heard of, let alone know, are my own stories and novels . This situation appears again and again . Take the story Retreat Syndrome.
[ 2:17] To reject the absolute nature of Y (Rome, c. A.D. 45) and hold that we have here twin, real, equal, separate selves and worlds housed in and/or emanating from one brain sticks us with a cosmology, an epistemology, more bizarre than the absolute vs. the mere aspect one . We wind up with the theoretical possibility of an unlimited number of equally real (or irreal) worlds and selves due entirely to brain-site stimulation or some such sophisticated technology—which is a more radical weltansicht75 than even Brahmanism, who can be in whatever form he wishes . Instead of real hidden world versus fake seeming world we have more than one (two to infinity) worlds all simulated uniformly, and selves to match . 2-74 and 3-74 then become technological breakdown and that seems to be the site-stimulated brain that Lem perceives is the basic model of my writing . My writing is proved by my 2-3-74 experience and vice versa . What I seem to be is a malconstructed entity: somehow the factory mechanism
[ 2:20] Voice: Pretexts ,
( A) either it's really Rome c. A.D. 45, and the USA 1974 world is just a way of viewing Acts, a mere illusory aspect, through which the real world of Acts
B is implied by the sentence ,
Up to hearing this, I had gone with A . Now I am forced, really for the first time, to consider B as likely or even more likely (than A). The pretexts idea when explicated totally ratifies B . However, if my writing is introduced as evidence, A is favored . The Q is, Does Acts
The vast traffic of information which I saw in 3-74 when I saw Zebra
World is—worlds are—push-pull projected/generated for us, by us, through us, so that we see world, not the entity as it is (supra paragraph). Why this is I have no idea—i.e., why we are given what we call reality
[ 2:41] This is the paradox of
I discern in this the following :
—i.e., he will take you by surprise, like the still small voice which Elijah heard . Or like Oh Ho the ceramic pot . The Oracle may speak to you from the gutter (whatever gutter
So my writing—itself part of the gutter and, as Lem says ,
[ 2:49] So the introjection is not only sentient, flexible and alive but specifically negentropic . Then, indeed, the Voice is right in speaking of higher (mind) realm versus lower (physical), with the higher having plenary powers to make the lower plastic Siddhartha is the sleeping soul of this calcified section.➊ St. Sophia is the soul of the totality: its voice and wisdom . St. Sophia speaks to the sleeping Siddhartha, in order to awaken him and thus lift this calcified section back to growth and flexibility, and of course consciousness . Thus it can be said that at present St. Sophia is outside of (absent from) this section, and will return upon the sleeping Siddhartha's awakening, at which point he will again know . (This section will again know .) Since there has never been a period in human history in which this section has not been calcified—asleep—we have no basis by which to imagine the magnitude of the transformation which is coming . Siddhartha
➊ This section died . It became fossilized, and merely repeats itself . This is scary; it is like mental illness :
Thus death rules here, which explains Paul's mystery
[ 2:61] Christ was and is the life of the totality expressed in its true form as sentient information (older term: wisdom or logos). His appearance here marks the entry of the anima of the total noös into this separated off ossified region . Physically killed here he then dispersed (distributed) himself according to plan as organizing principle (pure knowing) invisibly throughout this region without the hostile particle (heavy metal speck
[ 2:65] Without knowing it, during the years I wrote, my thinking and writing was a long journey toward enlightenment . I first saw the illusory nature of space when I was in high school . In the late 40s I saw that causality was an illusion . Later, during my 27 years of published writing, I saw the mere hallucinatory nature of world, and also of self (and memories). Year after year, book after book and story, I shed illusion after illusion: self, time, space, causality, world—and finally sought (in 1970) to know what was real . Four years later, at my darkest moment of dread and trembling, my ego crumbling away, I was granted Dibba Cakkhu—and, although I did not realize it at the time, I became a Buddha (
[ 2:80] If I had not regained this lost wisdom by losing forgetfulness (Maya) I would doubt if there were any literal truth to the thing . (When I contemplate my system as such, I say ,
[ 2:83] The macrocosm (universe) —microcosm (man) theory leads to the interesting idea that any given human mind contains latently within it the entire structure or soul of the totality, but in miniature; so all knowledge can be retrieved out of one person's mind through mirror-like magic recollection . (Bruno) Jung sees this as the collective unconscious: the repository of the phylogenic history of the person . Ontogeny contains phylogeny . This looks very much like my onion model in Ubik but in Ubik is the macrocosm whose phylogeny is recapitulated latently . This takes us back from Freud to Empedocles: Freud invokes the contending forces of love and strife of Empedocles, pointing out their similarity to Eros and destructiveness, the two primal elements of his bio-psychical theory . These instincts, which present the delusive appearance of forces striving after change in progress, actually impel the organism toward the reinstatement of earlier, more stable states, ultimately to inorganic existence . The originally biological principle that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny has received very wide psychological extension and psychoanalysis; most recently Carl Jung has identified his doctrine of the collective unconscious with that of
[ 2:85] In Ubik the universe (not the organism, e.g., a man) is
( 1) The form-axis regressions in Ubik could only occur if the universe were the hylozoic animal which the macro-microcosmos schools believed it to be . (
Space, time and motion are relative...since the universe is infinite, and there cannot be two infinities, the infinite God and the infinite universe must be one...there is no prime mover, there is motion or energy inherent in every part of the whole.
Nature is the outside of the divine mind; however, this mind is not in a heaven above ,
There are opposites in nature, contrary forces, contradictions; but in the operation of the whole cosmos—in the will of God —all contraries coincide and disappear...behind the bewildering, fascinating variety of nature is the yet more marvelous unity, wherein all parts appear as organs of one organism.
[ 3:20] Okay . I have no doubt that the sort of space I experienced in the Alto Carmel dream and the Voice dreams is Paracelsus' inner firmament . Thomas brought it with him, along with the huge open books . That was the mind of Paracelsus, and it was infinitely older and wiser than mine—and it embraced vast vistas, in terms of its philosopher's stone
[ 3:24] Voice :
[ ...] I am not here . Maybe it is I who is not real, rather than USA 1974 being not real . It is real, but I am not here.
All places and all times are syntonic, and the selection of which space and which time we get derives initially from our psyche; the signal starts there (in the push-pull system). I am positive of it . My mind in the broadest sense initiates my world, although the omni-temporal (and I guess omni-spatial) matrix fires the signal back enhanced, and then my psyche enhances it more and again fires it, projects it, and so on . What, then, is psyche? I say, a station in the macrobrain . After all, I saw the brain and I saw its info traffic, with all the linkings and relinkings, the rapid flux, and we are involved in the processing of this vast rapid traffic . I even saw the plasmatic energy or life of the brain, Zebra, melt a physical, causal sequence—de-substantialize it . Damn it, Zebra by melting it revealed it to never have been there, really there, in the first place—just as Krishna says :
Substantiality (objective concreteness) has been shown to me (in 3-74) to be illusory; as in Stigmata and Maze, it's hallucination, plural (or group) hallucinatory worlds which emanate from our psychoi in cross synchronization . Belief in world makes world substantial; the fact
I am not just asking ,
as I've thought; in, e.g., Ubik I state—give—an alternate cosmology at the heart of what appears to be skeptical inquiry and tearing down . The reason the statement of a (this) alternate cosmology is not recognized even by me is that this particular cosmology is so radically at odds with the rationalistic mechanical scientific
[ 3:34] Voice :
See previous voice note, p. 24 :
[ 3:35] Every time I go to sleep now I again see writing . E.g . :
