as a stockpile, a sort of spinning sphere in the midst of creation, maze with its lower-order intelligence and life; the two are locked in a dialectic combat of realm II (the older, lower) against the newer upper wise realm I! Realm II (defective) came (hatched) first . It is ground; realm I is set . As put forth as the basic theme of VALIS, the rational has broken into (or irrupted into, or descended onto, or risen up from) (or evolved out of) the prior irrational . No creator precedes the universe—or if there was/is one he is blind (or deranged). We may be him and may be poisoned (mercury
[ 9:61] I am led by inexorable logic to the conclusion that if it is Christ the Parousia is here and it may be Christ, but—it may be something new . To encounter such an extraordinary entity would excite religious responses in me even if the entity weren't Christ or the Holy Spirit or God, etc . Vortex of the will which achieved consciousness of a superior kind, and a kind unlike ours . I don't know what it is or where it came from, or how long it's been here . Suppose the
[ 11:1] Hypnagogic thought :
This is a scary thought . I am Zebra, in which case, What am I? And are other people what I am, too? Then I exist at at least two space-time continua (Calif. 1974 and Syria 45) and am at least two people: myself and Thomas . But the
Or—is it that as each lamination is superimposed, the previous ones (the past) remain? Like the phosphene graphics which I saw: constants emerged . So they did not replace one another but were added to . Built up—the entelechy assembling itself; when you go to step y you don't abolish step x w x; they're added to: laminated: so-to-speak imploded (opposite of an exploded diagram). Yes; time explodes reality, the opposite direction of added-to implosion
So that's what I did in Ubik—correctly represented time spatially and the past as spatially within—literally within—the present . And in this speeded-up process (never mind how you speed up purely spatial axes) information which is everywhere and conscious and which cooks pop media, such as TV commercials—appears . No wonder they asked me in May 74 ,
I was very right in Ubik to see how it related to Plato's forms . The past can be retrieved along a spatial axis—as in Ubik! I did it, when I saw Acts.
Where I lucked out was finding the
The entity VALIS is the entity Ubik, which in all the time of writing VALIS I never realized! And VALIS exists; therefore Ubik exists; therefore Ubik as a novel is, like VALIS, basically veridical, even though when I wrote it I didn't (yet) know it . But, I suspect, the Lem people suspected it—so they must suspect something on the order of VALIS, which I have made some primitive attempt to delineate and define, now, for publishing purposes . And VALIS came closer and closer to fruition—and completion—I represented Valis/Zebra more and more like Ubik . The informational aspect of reality is only perceptible when the time-axis is seen correctly (spatially), evidently because the information lies—to a vital, essential degree—along that axis, and must be viewed in accretional superimposed form, with the earlier (past) parts still within view as essential constituents of the messages—the present
[ 11:8] I just realized something terribly important . In melting the causal trains Zebra not only frees you from astral determinism physically, but also discloses the fact that in some way these causal deterministic processes (and the objects comprising them?) are not real but merely hologram-like . In seeing these ostensibly hard melt one understands that they are merely seeming, and subject to a non-hard volitional sentient mind . Is this not a freeing of the person's mind in conjunction with the literal physical freeing? His body is freed and his mind is freed (of illusion; i.e., the power of illusion over him is broken by being unmasked; this, too, is knowledge, and of the highest—the very highest—order). Then acosmism as a view is induced—correctly—in the person . Freed physically and freed mentally—the whole of him freed when he witnesses a melt ing
[ 11:12] I can come to no other conclusion . Reality is a field onto which our senses have falsely locked and which now coerces us and must be demonstrably broken from outside in a way in which we can witness (
Is it possible that an object and its causal process is only included at the time it's converted from the zero rest mode to the one active mode—that the imposition of pattern is itself in flux, using and discarding and moving on? It sure has discarded me! I'm in the zero mode now, and hence outside
[ 11:18] Thoughts upon reading the first half of VALIS: We are in a situation like the cold-pac in Ubik . It is a hologram reality; time, space, causality and ego are not real—the world (phenomenal world) is not real but projected . We have pre-programmed lock-in tapes synchronized with the total outer matrix . Subliminal cues and info are fired at us constantly: reality is really information (as I saw); we are a brain, and the controllers are the 3-eyed telepathic deaf, mute builders with crab-claws; this explains who they are . They can readjust our hologram at will . We are under their dominion, and we perform a useful cerebral function . They equal Valis which equals Ubik and which breaks through on the one-way eerie manifesta tion basis which Lem depicts . It is a spurious reality and their technology generates it, and although they aid and inform us they also occlude and control us (this is astral determinism). They can and do intervene in their own system; we know this as God.
I had it all correctly figured out except for grasping the significance of the fact that maze signifies testing, studying and training a lower species, that we are the lower species and not isomorphic with the 3-eyed people who built the maze—nor did I grasp the significance of their being outside—i.e., above—the maze looking down at it (represented by the stagnant pond and the pond life) and their controlling the reality field (i.e., the maze) and us inwardly/outwardly at will . As the special forces guy in St. Jude's said ,
( and owned). Okay—they saved my ass in 3-74 through their parousia here, Zebra/Valis/Ubik, but—we're just pond life to them living in an irreal hologram which they manipulate at will without our suspecting (the plastic
It could almost be said to prey on constituents in its environment, but more accurately one should say it ravishes them lovingly; it fertilizes them, marries Valis Unbound Valis Reborn Valis Regained . Valis Unbound.
I am in mental motion: the constant generating of self-negating propositions shows how the total universe (sic) works . * I am a mutant, a monster/a savior/a neither/neither (see the self-generating dialectic!). Valis is self-generating; no one created it or planned a project to produce it . It also generates its own meaning and truth; and I am it—not part of it but it—it . I am Valis . Why? Disguised . Shiva? Wotan as Fremder!! Sic, I mean the wanderer.
Valis didn't choose the //\\ //\\ self-contradiction/generating dialectic; it is it . When I saw the //\\ //\\ dialectic I saw Valis, its pump—what drives it . And it
Heuristics is right on . The closer you get to reality the closer you get to (and to seeing) process . Q isn't What does? [...] re place each is does
I must deduce that process constitutes my essence My Christianity (the way); i.e., the early secret Christians—the name and religious doctrines were (only) a cover for a revolutionary political group . They were always underground . They (still) exist today . Now, they possess a superior technology, and they also did in 70 A.D. (Acts Holy spirit was a cover name for some kind of technological apparatus which narrow cast an energy mind into—to control—another human . The energy mind is the mind of all of them in a computer—i.e., a thinking machine: inorganic: built . What I saw vis-à-vis Valis is it (the info processing). It's located somewhere on this world . It controls history . Our history, this computer which can beam its aggregate vast mind onto anyone (thought to be the Holy Spirit
Only if you're already using the enlightened computer flip-flop thinking can you see that both (1) (occluding) and (2) (enlightening) are true, which is to say para-true.
[ 11:48] Okay, Watergate got us out of SE Asia and disengaged vis-à-vis USSR . Our interests are now served there through China . It is against China that USSR now acts, not us . This is crucial . Program A must have led to all-out war between U.S. and USSR . The spirit in us prevented first Nixon and then Ford from aiding S. Vietnam . So (if my reasoning is correct) we of the counterculture prevented WWIII . We hamstrung the U.S. military machine . This counterculture did not arise ex nihilo (out of nothing). What were its origins? Consider the 5os . The concept of unamerican
[ 8:4] An overriding quiddity of the 2-3-74 experience is this: It's as if certain books of mine went out from me (Unteleported Man, Ubik, Tears, etc .) and then (years) later (or weeks) came back, like in F. Brown's The Waveries, in signal form: including the bichlorides The Bichlorides
[ 8:5] The Empire may not be a congealed permutation (stasis of the dialectic) but the one—which the macro brain desires to—and works to—avoid, since its uniformity is entropy itself . In a sense it may be that the Empire is any stagnation so rigid that with it (by reason of it) the dialectic ceases . Put another way, when we see it we know that stagnation has occurred: this is how we within the program experience congealing . We see (or should see) the BIP . We are supposed to combat it phagocyte-wise, but the very valence of the (BIP) stasis warps us into micro extensions of itself; this is precisely why it is so dangerous . This is the dread thing it does: extending its android thinking (uniformity) more and more extensively . It exerts a dreadful and subtle power, and more and more people fall into its field (power), by means of which it grows, thus thwarting the dialectic more and more . The macro-brain is well aware of this . It has seen Christianity itself, its own doctrine, congeal due to this valence . The very doctrine of combating the
I am going to leap to a conclusion based on the Acts and other Christian material . I think it is indeed the Holy Spirit, which took a Valis-like (i.e., Ubik-like) form out of considerateness toward me but—I hesitate to essay anything in the way of assertions about its actual (real, not simulated) nature . After all, if it is the Holy Spirit it is the supreme being himself . (
[ 8:9] #1 :
[ 8:11] So Zebra is a macro feedback circuit re my micro-conception as expressed in Ubik especially, but not limited to Ubik . Does this verify the hermetic above as below
Somehow this resembles my concept of the self-perpetuating dialectic . A correct hypothesis will be responded to—as if automatically, since such a response is included in the conceptual formulation . There's, then, an
[ 8:13] Voice :
[ 8:21] I now have assembled the complete Gnostic system with its two realms, only one of which—the upper—is real (Form I of Parmenides). (As stated in VALIS .) It all stems from the insight that our world is not real . Then we ask, not real in relation to what? (Something must be real, or else the concept irreal means nothing .) Then we ask ,
and we ask ,
and then we ask ,
We learn of a mysterious savior who camouflages himself to outwit our jailers and makes himself and his saving Gnosis known to us . He is our friend and he opposes this world and its powers on our behalf as our champion, and
3-74: simply, you ordinarily (99.99% of the time) simply lack the memory capability to remember things were just now different, because each difference lasts only the nanosecond of the dialectic of each form axis (i.e., bit of information!!!), of which our world at each nanosecond is the composite total . (It's as if 3-74s
All we remember is sustains, but right now the sustain of rationality is interrupted by irrationality, and I've remembered well enough to spot it, and take advantage of it . 2-74: memory of previous frame . [Editor's note: See Dick's clarification of this notion of sustains
We don't remember well enough due to physical limitations, and this puzzles us (we know something's wrong), and we try to come up with theories . These theories, being false, are impairment
[ 6:23] I provoked a palpable contradiction in reality . It betrayed its self-canceling nature, so no rational analysis is correct . It must pulsate in self canceling oscillations so rapidly that we don't realize it, so what is true at one nanosecond is not true at the next . The reality which exists now cannot be the reality which existed a nanosecond ago—despite our memories.
Games . Fun . Riddles . Since truth changes there is no answer . Process is everything . What was true 10 seconds ago is not true now (the dialectic flip-flops which generate their negations instantly). Self canceling; if I say ,
the truth of this instantly generates its opposite :
[ 6:25] We constantly unconsciously modulate future events but don't know it because (1) we do it unconsciously, by our impersonal will*; and (2) what we call memory
Viewed pragmatically, Christ offers us more than scarce can be conceived . But it would seem that there are no Christians except the original ones, which conforms to Luke's secrecy
[ 6:41] Therefore I maintain that whatever the intent of the authors of The Tibetan Book of the Dead they are in fact describing our world and state . * We are in a decomposing, degenerating process and will continue so unless enlightened by Valis, who introduces negentropy . Determinism and entropy are considered here as identical; succumbing to what is really a self-generated fate is identified with death and disorder . Upon the lethal triumph of this decomposing process, nothing new comes into the individual (or macro) mind . This is tantamount to psychosis or ultimate brain dysfunction (schizophrenia). I maintain that regarded as a totality the cosmos, including Valis, is partially in this state; a measure of anomie or irrationality pervades us and pervades Valis . Technically, the dialectic loses its generative power or potentially could lose its generative power . This is the abysmal evil to be fought at all costs, inasmuch as its victory would snuff out the cosmos . This is being versus nonbeing . In my opinion human beings freeze or die or partially die vis-à-vis this dialectic; its progression in us—as us—is not automatic . Each of us is a microform of it, and to the extent that we succumb to fate astral determinism
In conclusion, I conceive of our situation as one of entropy or decom position, a succumbing to determinism which is to say, the products of our own former thought formations; therefore for us the past determines the future . Into this dying system Valis breaks bringing new life and energy and freedom and knowledge; he impinges one-way from outside
[ 6:44] Regard this as a scientific hypothesis: what we call reality is in fact an objectification of our prior thought formations—since in fact we are dead and dreaming in a state of psychic decomposition (as depicted in Ubik). And under such conditions we have no world but that of our former thought formations returning to afflict or delight us (as depicted in The Tibetan Book of the Dead) (which is where I got the idea for Ubik). In other words, I read The Tibetan Book of the Dead in the late 50s or early 60s and realized that our world and condition was in fact depicted and not (as is said) a world and condition which follows our life . From internal evidence in The Tibetan Book of the Dead I discerned that those in the Bardo Thödol state do not know they are in that state but imagine they are (still) alive . They do not know that the evil and good spirits (events, people, things) which they encounter are their own (former) thought-formations projected onto a pseudo-world, and that contrary to what appears to be the case, they can create, change and abolish future reality (not present reality, since there is a lag). In Ubik my characters die and enter this state but don't know it . I then departed from the description of the Bardo Thödol existence in The Tibetan Book of the Dead and added Ubik, a vast logos-like mind who invades their decaying world and rescues them . Now, if I was right (that secretly The Tibetan Book of the Dead depicts—and probably knowingly depicts—our present life, world and condition) I could anticipate that after a suitable time lag—and especially if I was dying, like Joe Chip on the stairs—I could expect intervention by my thought formation Ubik . In 3-74 due to overpowering dread and enervation I began to literally experience the colored lights described in The Tibetan Book of the Dead and knew myself to be in the Bardo Thödol state . Yet it was this side of the grave; I have not died; ergo, The Tibetan Book of the Dead does depict (secretly) our present condition . And then, sure enough, exactly as I described in Ubik, written information appeared to me, and presently Ubik itself, down to specific details . Valis (i.e., Ubik), then, is a projection of my own mind and not real —but, as The Tibetan Book of the Dead says, nothing we experience is anything other than objectification of our own prior thought formations—and enlightenment consists in knowing this and so controlling them . Only if you (1) read The Tibetan Book of the Dead and (2) realized it secretly applied to this life could you accomplish what I did in creating Valis . Truth is totally plastic and represents a complex mingling of our former fears, beliefs and desires (mostly unconscious in us).
Etc . I have choice in the matter . So I ask, not ,
[ 6:49] This is esoteric Gnosis of the highest order . We are not living (if we are living at all!) in a real universe . It is a dream . But it does not respond overtly to our beliefs (i.e., fears and wishes, or worldview/ideology). Its response is (1) delayed, (2) randomized, (3) concealed adroitly; after all, it is sentient, playful and alive (because we are). You must have the key premises (wisdom, pragmatic ideology, etc .) at your disposal to gain control over it; that is, you must guess right, assess it correctly . It's a game, a puzzle . The reward for guessing right is joy and power; for guessing wrong, a bitter disappointing frustrating defeated life (or death). The Tibetan Book of the Dead tells the truth and yet we misread it because it says ,
[ 6:57] It's interesting to read back to [>] and 7, and see how on [>] when I was totally loaded I had the ex nihilo satori that
This insight was a glorious quantum leap up: that a decade before 3-74 I myself consciously generated Ubik which then in 3-74 intervened and invaded and liberated me exactly as it does in the novel . Thus was explained why when I encountered Zebra/Valis I had the uncanny feeling that I was encountering my own thoughts
[ 6:62] The evidence seems to be pointing more and more (starting with the model) to us being stationary mega (multipersonal) brains outside time and space, pre-programming ourselves with a pseudoreality! There is some evidence that we are arranged like the audience in the James-James dream, multiperson megabrains viewing a single omnifaceted matrix which is the source, for us all, of all times and all places (and all events); and onto which we project our individual prior thought-formations—which consist of our thought responses to prior reality frames (which lay down no holographic memories in us); we pass from one frame to the next at ultra high speed—too fast to lay down memories, along all the form axes . These axes are determined not by any intrinsic nature but by our thoughts about them; what we believe to be true . Thus actual reality is our compound thoughts, and change in reality is the result of changing thought responses to prior objectified thought-formations; i.e., we think in response to reality
I visualize a vast grid of 0-1 flip-flop grid squares whose pattern of 0 (dark) and 1 (light) changes constantly . 0 is irrational or untrue belief . 1 is rational or true . The patterns are intricate . The aggregate of dark squares at any one nanosecond is the
