But I saw the process
But what might I do, possibly? No one would believe me . Even if I could express it, which I can't . No verbal report could convey it . It has never been done yet—it is ineffable, what I experienced . I can say even to a priest ,
and explain about the arranging and the mimicry—I can report that what we see all around us (the phenomenal world) is only real because He transubstantiates it beneath the accidents
[ 26:50] Even in my sleep three times I called out Vater!
If I know he is here, and if I know he is good, and if I know he controls becoming
[ 26:52] Suppose I conceive of the monads as receivers recorders which to a greater or lesser degree accurately receive and record an impression which is a memory of the image of the All, thus containing thereupon and thereby a microcosm image from which can be retrieved and restored the All, the way a hologram contains a more or less accurate image . The total organism is the only object which is fully real, and by the—to the—degree that the individual monad or cell remembers, which involves receiving and recording for later playback, the total organism can be restored (if somehow lost, whatever lost means in this case). Supposing that the total organism is changing continually (say at the flash-cut rate—velocity—of the phosphene graphics
Are we reels of recording tape? Memory units reflecting back Zebra the total organism? Are we sophisticated percept-and-record systems that (barring malfunction) can serve later on to re-establish what has now passed on to further stages? In that case my 3-74 experience was the end in itself insofar as I as subsystem am concerned; it is up to some other assembly to, if desired, retrieve back out of me what due to 3-74 I contain . It is not the responsibility of the memory spool to play back
To remember seems to entail (or produce) something more than we tend to realize, e.g., when an LP record remembers the performance of a Schumann song cycle sung by the late Fritz Wunderlich . In a certain very real (true) sense it doesn't just remember that Wunderlich sang that song cycle but in point of fact restores (to perfection as limit) that voice and that music . Perhaps, in contemplating the phenomenon of anamnesis we fail to grasp the full significance; if indeed I am a perceiving-remembering-and-playback spool, on
[ 27:3] In reading Lem on Ubik I see this: in my worldview (head) there is no appreciation or recognition of causality as normally understood—and I recall that dilemma when I was 19 and found I simply could literally not see causality—while all other people do . This explains my 10 theories
It, the imagined ultimate conspiracy-and-danger event either took place, or events happened which resembled what I imagined sufficiently to cause me to think it had arrived . The event was an actual fulfillment of my imagined master scene . From a psychological standpoint, I was overwhelmed by the contents of my unconscious dictating this script and having feared and imagined this master scene . I acted out—i.e., I acted in response to this real or imaginary conspiracy—danger . All right, all this looks psychotic . But due to my response, I have become entirely freed of paranoid feelings, fear, beliefs, delusions, expectations—completely . That's been 3 whole years . In Jungian terms, a metabolic toxin, mescaline-like, was secreted in my brain and it destroyed my persecutory complex . The
All of the above is true . When I read North by Northwest I suddenly could recall the paranoid world I had been inhabiting prior to my phone call to the Bureau on 3/20/74 . I used to live in the world of this screenplay . That is why I was constantly afraid (especially at night); I feared they would break in and get me . What I did was incredible: I turned toward the group I believed was persecuting me for help, i.e., I converted my fear and hate and suspicion into love ,
However, when my total collapse occurred (i.e., when the metabolic toxin was released for the purpose of destroying the overvalent delusional complex), it worked, and I recovered, free of that complex; the misplaced quality of the biological attempt at adaptation to reality did not set in . One reason for this was (perhaps due to experience with psychedelics in the past) that instead of experiencing the episode as weird or Fremd or frightening, as a collapse of my world, I experienced this collapse (of my maladaptive idios kosmos) as good, and the vast divine kosmos rushing in as lovely, awe-inspiring, comforting and transforming . In brief, I had the courage to pass through it, and learn (boy, how I learned!) from it—which is what was supposed to happen! So in a sense it wasn't a psychotic breakdown but rather a massive upheaval and reconstruction engineered by the [archetype of the] Logos (i.e., holy wisdom). The hallucination voice which I heard, the AI voice was not threatening or evil
Well , 3-74 was a therapeutic psychosis, and the sibyls, Gods, and spirits and cyclopses and monsters I saw were archetypes and
This is true . I had a breakdown, and when I recovered I wasn't paranoid any longer . Is this the real story? It is, yes, but—look what I experienced: the archaic world of the Gods who are now gone from our narrow modern world, alas . What was truly nuts was my paranoid delusion complex, which is why the metabolic toxin was released (mescaline-like) to destroy it; the complex was warping me, and preventing growth . But the breakdown episode"—ah! I was transported out of mundane reality and into the Kingdom: like a little child whose adult ego has been sacrificed . Yes, it was scary, but I loved it; what an adventure into newness it was . As I read North by Northwest I am filled with loathing and repugnance at that ugly little paranoid Pynchonish world—blech! Most important: my trip was a journey back 2,000 to 3,000 years in time to a fabulous Golden (Greek) age! With no therapist to guide me, with no human guide, just Christ and my cat Pinky I made it back . I have written down all that I saw, heard and understood . It was not delusion I found during my trip—it was absolute reality . The delusion was the menacing
[ 27:11] The koinos is the shared external world . The internal world which is shared is by definition the collective unconsciousness: collective shared
Viewed this way, a mere ego-constructed world is the private world we mistakenly (evidently) label as a sane—i.e., normal (rational) —world . But maybe our entire civilization is wrong; this—i.e., these—multitude of idioi private worlds are irreal phenomenal worlds, and exclude such archetypes
This opens up a fascinating possibility: that what we call schizophrenia is an attempt on the part of the total brain to achieve bilateral hemispheric parity—an evolutionary leap forward—and the mechanism of this is the metabolic toxin which is intended to destroy the left hemisphere ego qua maladaptive complex, but the right hemisphere views the world so archaically that the individual cannot get consensual validation for his replacement perceptions . What is lacking at this stage is coherent personality in the right hemisphere: perhaps what is necessary is for it to be forming in advance of its disinhibition
[ 27:13] Because of my inability to understand or perceive (linear) causality (which lack causes the greatest divergence between the way I experience events and the way others do] I can potentially comprehend what they cannot: orthogonal breaching, e.g., Runciter's message in Ubik I swear: this culminated—this—in 3-74 in my visionary perception of Zebra: within the coordinates of my worldview, this perception of this entity (closed off to other people because precisely of their being locked in on linear time cause-and-effect) is possible given the proper other circumstances (e.g., it being there) —but for normal cause-and-effect percept-systems this miraculousness has to be invisible always, as it does not progress in a linear fashion but, like the Light Moth
My view [of cause and effect] may be characteristic of right brain thinking, and it may be that in 3-74 my experience was not a breaking through at unused bright brain centers, but more a final culmination of their prior activity—as if they at least bloomed fully and freely, untrammeled by fossil left brain analogs . What other people are able to discern is efficient cause; I see this imperfectly—as witness (1) my many theories re the Nov. 17 break-in* and (2) the way—non-linear—my books develop: what I managed to see in 3-74 [was] the activity of final (teleological) cause . Thus I now can show a relationship between an unusual—the unusual—way I see and have always seen the world—and the apogee experience of 3-74, at which time (I believe) enormous final causes were at work—hence (1) my stockpile
The entire 3-74 experience can be understood in terms of my—at that time—being completely, rather than as usual only partly—able to actually distinguish (literally see) final cause at work and the entity doing it . Hence I came to say in my U.K. speech :
To me, efficient causality is backward.
[ 27:18] Paul Williams13 visited today and I told him about Zebra . I am beginning to see in my mind's eye, Zebra itself, an actual animal, a striped horse . Shy and merry and mischievous, half hiding in the forest at the far edge of the Heide, the sun shining, and Zebra playfully advancing and then just when you think he's going to emerge fully and separate himself from the trees—suddenly and unexpectedly he retreats and absolutely vanishes . You can't coax him out, or lure him; you can't get your hands on him . His white is the dazzle of the sun; his dark stripe the shadows in the glade and forest
Last night I dreamed about an orchard of trees with pink cherry blossoms—that same pink color of immortality and God . This time as spring . But a man was cutting the branches down . My watch ran backward and sideways—I didn't know the time, and when someone told me it was too late I thought, Erasmus Erasmus
[ 27:37] I think what means the most to me about Zebra is that when I saw him I saw our rightful king—glimmering and darting and flowing like electricity and fire and water.
Bruderschaft! Der Konig Kommt!
[ 27:40] I don't think it enters humans all that often . Or there would be more experiences of this kind reputed in history . Or: those people thus assimilated are hip enough to keep it to themselves, forming an invisible true church of the esoteric . I say at this point, it was the uncut stone flung—I am sure . It did intervene; it does not customarily do this or we'd know—or would we? We don't know now . Herewith the mimicry: it disappeared into objects and events—totally . To see it you had, temporarily, to be it . I know this because (1) Tessa saw nothing, and (2) no one else has said anything . This is why my Zebra
Time, March 14 , 1977, on Julian Jaynes' The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind . Man was bicameral until around 2000 B.C . He could hear the
My theory: the loss of bicamerality is what we call the Fall . We could no longer walk and talk
What, then, are the Gods ,
Time's caption asks.
I guess I'm a pioneer, along with other pioneers, in
But this broke down sometime between 2000 and 1000 B.C . Why Jaynes '
Wow . And to think that as early as my 11th grade physics class I got an inner answer from the Gods
[ 27:45] Thus rather than asking how come I could see him I should ask, why don't we see him normally? What hinders us? and how? A
[ 27:47] If as Jaynes figures, the Gods are in our right hemispheres (but now silent) I amend this to say ,
the Gods, still in our right hemispheres, still command us, but now do so without our knowing (1) of them being there; and (2) that they so command us—one of their (its) commands being ,
I.e., we still obey but do not consciously hear the commands we obey—and these inner commands write in synchronized unison with stimuli—triggers—lying external to us—i.e., outside, in things, assemblies and events to which we are caused to react . The command voice may be in
[ 27:49] The Thomas personality always had existed, always had exercised definitive control, but unbeknownst to the left . Thomas wake up, he just thresholded . So I say to Jaynes: the Gods' voices only seem to have become silent . They still operate us but we are commanded to be oblivious to this . Just as Zebra operates externally always but we can't see him, the Thomases operate internally and we're unaware of them equally; and I say they—Zebra and the Thomases—are one and the same . Then Thomas was my experience with the mind of Zebra, and Thomas' characteristics are his; I apprehended Zebra from without within.
Suppose the human mind is regarded as an information repository . If you know what signal to convey to it, this human mind (brain) can print out Thomas summoned to do what only he (not I) could do—the right signal given the computer
[ 27:77] Starting in 1951 , 26 years ago, I began in my stories (and then novels) to make certain very serious guesses about the nature of reality: Questioning if it was really there, out there (not in here), and, if so, if out there, what it really was like . In Tears in '70, just about 20 years after I began to ask, I began to try to answer . There are no answers in Tears, not even later on in Scanner—but for me as the asker in 3-74 the answer (singular) came: What is out there really is the same as what is in here really—i.e., what I call Zebra, which probably is either Christ—the cosmic Christ—or Brahman—or a reality-web forming, mandating AI-like entity which observes us, sets up problems for us, and assists us in solving them, and at the same time teaches us, and, as it teaches, sorts us into different groups for postmortem assigning into a totality of a hive-like corporate system . It takes great pains to occlude us perceptually, evidently not wishing to contaminate its results . But I did over a 26 year period ask the right questions, and so, in 3-74, it did answer, which suggests an AI knowing system once more: one must know it is there or guess a little correctly to punch the buttons
So now at last, my earlier work finally in focus, that work, or search, draws successfully to an end . I need not necessarily add a final explanation to the 26-year work output; it, going from Roog to Scanner is intrinsically complete; the answer lies in the question, and
is the question . I have been [already] successful, but only now could I see it . Hosanna! It is a teaching AI machine
I now know the answers to the Q's I asked in the 50s and 60s: it finally yielded—"moved ."Q: What is it? A :
[ 27:96] Also, the reversion to past is along the form axis, as in Ubik . The temporal axis of the universe, when seen properly as spatial, consists of these infinite numbers of transparency-thin layers superimposed . For any entity seeing time correctly as this spatial axis of sequence (layers) and growth, it is possible to move backward in time
Perhaps each graphic (colored transparency picture) was an edola . Each graphic which I saw was beneath (within, inside) the previous one . In a certain real sense I was traveling backward in time—back to Rome c. A.D. 70 . What was really unpeeling backward deeper and deeper were the layers of my own mind primarily . We ourselves consist of millions of accretional layers built up (added onto) over thousands of years; we are like barnacles . We travel along this spatial axis of layers laid down each new one upon the last, the whole, building up deeper and deeper (
So we continually move—upward, adding layer after layer at flash-cut velocity . Viewed externally, we would see us all as a very large number of interlinked rods advancing, growing, in a unity, a system, toward completion or rather full term: birth . The total system (universe) is a—resembles—an embryo . It is partially alive, all of it moving and changing (i.e., growing). But not growing in the mere sense of expanding; it is a developing entelechy . Nothing which it was
To understand this one must imagine the individual as a rod or column spanning a very large number of ongoing lives, one after another, but always accruing (as well as sequential) —these long rods pass—thrust—outward (rather than just upward) as the universe-entelechy grows . There is a growth from small, simple, slow to more intricate and complex and rapid . I see it (envision it) as a geometrical jungle gym ,
If this model is correct, I as changeling cuckoo's egg
In which case the value of my published writing is that it teaches us to look beneath (behind or below) the palpable landscape, to regard it only as a cunning veil, and to detect at last the absolute event—the 1st advent—which is the true landscape around us . Except in such works as Ubik ,
3 Stigmata, TMITHC ,
