( This collates with its non-biological nature .) It amounts to a
[ 91: K-138] It is of supreme significance that this info life form is not limited to human brains but—as I saw—exists outside them, scrambled into the sensible world . This shows that rather than human mind having evolved into info life form status, the superior entity seizes on the lower (on us) and makes use of them as a sort of focus point . This, too, agrees with Teilhard, who does not in any way envision Point Omega limited to human minds and their evolution . Being bodiless, the info life form floats, as it were . [...] The human mind could serve as an interface between the info life form and physical reality, a mediating duplex instrument, very much a groove to which the info life form is the music.
[ 91: K-157] To repeat: the NT is the essential spirit of the OT and can be extracted, which is precisely what Jesus did (
) —okay . But the NT, spirit of the Torah (the OT) itself contains stegenographically a supernatural living being—the blood of Christ (the plasmate interspecies symbiosis cross bonding —i.e., Ditheon . This is living info that can think and replicate and is Christ—as I saw; it is not info concerning Christ but is Christ, and swarms up the optic conduit to the pineal body to produce a hierogamy (the chemical wedding; more properly Ditheon). * Thus as info it is limitless in its combinations or messages or contents—hence I saw the linking and relinking permu tating through an infinitude of combinations—the universe as info; compare this to the fixed law; compare, too, to the NT itself: now the message changes to meet each new situation, regarding—dealing with each situation as unique, hence fluid—hence total time-process and evolution . There are no precedents, no rules; but this is not chaos; it is evolution, hierarchical—and very Zen, like perpetual renewal of the universe where what was true yesterday is not true tomorrow (reticulation, accretions and arborization). The instructions permutate to meet continually permutating reality; therefore the info must be capable of thought . This is as radically different from the NT as the NT is to the OT, and yet latent in the NT as the NT is latent (as spirit) in the letter of the OT . Viz: the NT is the secret narrative of the OT, but what is the secret narrative
[ 91: K-167] No, there will be no one Scripture (narrative); it will perpetually recombine uniquely for each situation and person, so instead of one narrative there will be an infinitude of narratives; but for each choice situation the recombinant message will be appropriate . No one thing is right or true . The mind that recombines the meta-morphemes is in
[ 91: K-176] Ursula, you—aw, the hell with it . Unresolvable metaphysical problems —it's a good thing you didn't know Isaac Newton! He
[ 91: K-213] If I am right, that a divine compound macro-entity is assembling itself from sub-divine (i.e., mundane) sub-assemblies, then I have in my possession extraordinary knowledge . I base this concept on (1) the revelation of the dialectic; and (2) the Ditheon dream in conjunction with BTA and Russ' letter . Now, this would explain the
experience that I had (and which is expressed in Ubik). What Teilhard calls Christ is a conclusion of an evolutionary process, the components and lower stages possessing no divine or spiritual quality—yet when assembled, the divine is or becomes or occurs . The implications of this are enormous; one must radically reassess what mundane divine Mundane is a simpler, slower stage of divine or put another way, divine is a more complex, faster stage—the outcome stage—of mundane . But this is not the whole story; the other fundamental notion is: disparate versus unitary . As long as it
I have seen the infinities of Judaism, which is morality, of Christianity, which is love, of the Greeks, which is wisdom, and I have seen God's power as pronoia and charis to rescue me by bending the world itself; but beauty is a perplexing infinity, raising more questions than it answers . It is a puzzle too intricate for me . It spans all else . As I sit across the game board from Krishna I say ,
[ 81: K-10] Thus through the spirit there comes into existence a perfect (absolute) correspondence between Bible and our world . The Bible as information applies to this world here, this world now; world is meanwhile revealed as information (derived from information as its ontological basis) and this information is identical to the Bible as information . It is as if the Bible derives from and applies to world; world derives from and applies to the Bible, so that when you perceive world you perceive the Bible as world . And when you read the Bible it is no longer information about a world but is a world—and it is the same world that you live in here and now—the spirit accomplishes this through supra-temporal archetypes analogous to Plato's eide; these archetypes are identical for both world and Bible, a common source
( If I hadn't experienced this—both in regard to world and the Bible—I wouldn't believe it could occur; but [as I say] I know how it is done: by means of supra-temporal archetypal constants found both in world—underlying world—and in the Bible—underlying it . Thus what we know of as world and what we know of as information are viewed as two aspects of a single substantia, each equally real, in the exact fashion Spinoza sets forth .) To repeat: world properly seen is information and this information is the same as that which we call the Bible
This is extraordinary! Thus if you were to write an ontological description of our world as it really is, you would find to your surprise that you had written passages from/of the Bible, right down to the correct names of people—and this explains Tears . World can be deduced from the Bible, and the Bible from our world; they are one and the same . But what is perhaps most unexpected is that world is now viewed abstractly as information, which no one anticipated . And this information is Scripture . The trans-temporal constants, then, on which world is based, are as much informational in essence as they are anything else: intelligible concepts in the mind of God! This is a totally new understanding of the informational basis of reality—and the possibility that a mind exists (the spirit) in which the Bible ceases to be an informational description of a world and instead is that world, as if information and world are two stages or modes of one thing
[ 81: K-86] I am interested in what I call temporal parallaxis
[ 81: K-89] Now, here is another point . Unless or until I figured this inner as Paul puts it, I would not really have understood 2-3-74 . That is, my belief that in seeing Valis externally I saw the cosmic Christ is only half the story and perhaps the lesser half . However, it is just as well that in writing VALIS I did not claim to be
Why, this is Buddhism! Christianity subsumed by Buddhism as I guessed when I read Luke . Russ' letter is right-on.
[ 81: K-225] I guess the realization last night—that it was justification—is in itself revelation of the same kind as 2-3-74, plus such revelations as the hypnagogic vision about the messenger and bill of particulars . I sense a meaning in the term justification
[ 81: K-253] Soul, then, is metaphor for life and moreover life newly born, and a greater, better life, the like of which showed up nowhere before in my work . That upon finishing BTA I believed that I had risked my literal physical life—and almost lost it—is then logically what I would feel, would of necessity feel, because indeed I did risk my life; I risked my physical life in the service of preserving, augmenting and prolonging my spiritual life . It almost turned out that I literally physically died in the act (work) of giving birth to Angel Archer . Had it killed me I would have been concerned about only one thing: does Angel Archer exist now? As far as I'm concerned she does, and I don't appear to have physically died . But I subordinated my physical well-being for the sake of creating her, to the task of creating her; so well I might view her as my soul! But in viewing Angel Archer as eternal (now that I created her) I had to face the other side of the matter: that I am not . No wonder the most profound feelings and intimations possible flooded over me in the weeks following my completion of that book: it is a book whose story, theme and ideas, even its artistic worth, are all subordinated to Angel Archer as a person, as I wrote Russ recently . In thermal terms I as an organism expended my maximum effort at the service of the need to grow . It is in my work that my growth axis exists, and I am well aware of this; I have long been at the disposal of my work, viewing myself as its instrument, not it mine . Yet paradoxically in BTA—at least when viewed in conjunction with Russ' letter and my Ditheon dream—a feedback from it to me, me as a person, occurred, and a major conceptual insight arises in me as a result, an insight totally new to me having to do with (1) what Christ is; and (2) how achieved, that is, what brings on causes
[ 81: K-258] I maintain that my corpus—my opus—required her, and required me to be able to create her—perhaps prove I could create her as an artistic problem I consciously and deliberately posed for myself to—here is a remarkable thought! —to justify my work in terms of wholeness, completeness and intactness—which event (act) is analogic to God's justifying and completing me in terms of intactness and wholeness . Thus my creating Angel Archer ex nihilo is my analogic reperformance as a writer in his work of God's act toward me; creating Angel Archer is an act learned from 2-3-74; it is that justification first applied to me, now applied by me to my work . God perfects me; I comprehend this; I then in turn act to complete my work . I take my cue from the Pantocrator, my creator; he as artisan instructs by example me as artisan . He shows me that an ex nihilo adventitious psyche can be injected . And, like Thomas, Angel is ex nihilo and in a very real sense adventitious—she came into my work the way Thomas came into me . Thomas is what was missing in me (missing and needed); Angel is what was missing and needed . In both cases wholeness is the goal and in both cases wholeness was the result . One could say that God showed me that beyond logical necessity and organic development/unfolding lies the possibility of the unprecedented ex nihilo new . Like the resurrection it is logically impossible . Had he not done it with/for me, I would not have known that it could be . So in this regard, Angel Archer is indeed the offspring of 2-3-74, of the Ditheon, the justification, but by way of me as a creative artist; then probably I did not merely describe her, when I wrote the book; in writing the book I created her, which answers that question . And then having as a creative artist created her in and for my work I find her
[ ...] And then by reincorporating her as my soul I fuse myself as a person with myself as artist, i.e., with my work . The schism is healed . I and my work become one . And, curiously, I and my work constitute another push-pull Ditheon! Here again is the dialectic . Here again is growth and change, and a complementary antithesis . I am not Angel Archer; we are separate: we are di
[ 81: K-262] Now, consider what becomes of the human being failing to achieve (or receive) the Ditheon state, Jung's individuation or integration of the opposites (chemical wedding, mysterium coniunctionis, whatever ,
anyhow the event in which what was not there before is there now and it acts to complement what was there that in itself was incomplete, so that the result is wholeness or—as I like to call it—justification). The human being recirculates the same ideas (info) over and over again, and, according to the statistical laws regarding entropy, the degree of order in the info irreversibly decreases, disorder increases, and the person mentally and spiritually moves inexorably toward death . Now, Schrödinger contends that a biological organism postpones its death (thermal equilibrium) by maintaining a relatively high level of order by incorporating negative entropy from its environment, and this is precisely the entering of the adventitious psyche; it is either injected or is ingested, offered by the environment or taken from it; in any case what was outside the organism is now inside the organism and incorporated into one total structure with what was already there; i.e., it is assimilated—so-to-speak digested and incorporated, although not without some initial perturbation (defined as disorder). What was already there and what was intaken must ultimately either form a unity or (equally useful, maybe even more useful) a push-pull dialectic of complementary opposites, in which each half corrects the other, monitors the other, acts as a feedback circuit, producing a self-winding autonomous totality; thus the two halves are not identical . (The psyche has not split in two; quite the contrary—I became conscious of the difference when I first researched the meanings of the prefix di and saw that it can either mean double asunder, implying either a joining of two elements or a splitting of one element into halves; these are antithetical notions .) So perhaps assimilate is the wrong word ;
As a strategy for prolonging its life this is representative of the strategies of organisms by and large, but what I see here is an extraordinarily high degree of incorporation of negentropy from the environment and subsequent incorporation into the organism's own structure . (There is an initial perturbation, defined as disorder .) If all goes well, the organism now possesses a vast increase in its level of complexity, in energy—drastic increase in all the factors by which the capacity for biological survival is measured . Hence it has bought into prolonged vitality, viability and extended life—the issue being exactly that: life versus death . This extraordinary strategy is engaged in by an organism that is approaching death and knows it . It has run out of time . It is vitiated; it has ossified . Its environment has been pressing against its perimeter, threatening to invade and annihilate it . The level of internal organization has been lowering; it—the organism—perceives the ratio of order in it and outside it progressing toward less and less internal order, greater and greater exterior (external) order . Now, the concept expressed in the Ditheon dream fits in with Erwin Schrödinger's analysis of how
In fact Schrödinger's analysis tends to support the idea that indeed the second psyche is adventitious in origin, because this is only an unusual example of the fundamental way by which organisms delay death—perhaps the only way they do so—can do so . Then this transaction
Having allowed the invasion to occur it must now assimilate into its structure what it has allowed to come in—or even induced into coming in . This—when studied from this fundamental standpoint—doesn't seem to differ qualitatively from what protozoa do . It is not a basic strategy; it is the basic strategy, the irreducible transaction between a biological organism and its environment, for the purpose of prolonging the life of the organism . Now, what strikes me at this point is that perhaps this transaction can be viewed in terms of information . First, the lowered structural organization of the organism should be regarded as connoting info scarcity or depletion, at least relative to its environment . It (the organism) does not know enough; it experiences this as a heightened strangeness, incomprehensibility and unpredictability on the part of its environment—all of which renders that environment threatening because it is not understood . This could account for many of the fugal tactics by schizophrenics: they retreat from reality because reality is making less and less sense to them . But this in fact is not due to transformations in reality but in the relative information that the schizophrenic has about reality . And as he withdraws he escalates this disparity; by exercising progressively less reality testing he learns less and less; this is a self-defeating tactic, this attempt at disengagement . The solution is for him to advance into reality and so-to-speak capture and incorporate a sizable hunk of it without at the same time losing his own identity, that is, if the incorporated hunk of reality proves to exceed his capacity to assimilate it he is doomed to swift annihilation . In fact what was perceived formerly as an external threat is now literally internal and still a threat . In fact the threat has won out; the battle is over and the organism dies . Viewed this way this massive incorporation of its environment is a desperate last strategy based on the recognition that unless it does this it is certainly doomed; it must be convinced that any alternative means inexorable death . So the massive incorporation is an endgame battle to which it commits itself utterly, knowing the danger in what it is doing but knowing, also, the alternatives: they are dead ends . But now it has two centers: its own self and the self that it has incorporated but not assimilated . Its environment is literally inside it, and experienced from inside, that is, its now incorporated environment is known by its inward face as an I . Not an it, a sort of potentially lethal movement along Martin Buber's it-thou it thou —which is good—but the thou
First of all, it must deal with the startling discovery that what it has ingested—but not assimilated—is, like itself, conscious and even coherent . It and its acquisition—or invader—are roughly isomorphic . (Hence the adventitious psyche is perceived as human, a crucial point .) (Crucial, because if human it is not Fremd; it is other
[ 81: K-310] There is something I must face and face fully and honestly . The messenger vision—that was (first of all) not a dream but a vision (although perhaps hypnopompic). What I must face is that it sums up and expresses absolutely, precisely and perfectly what I discovered recently to be the very essence of Protestantism: the doctrine of unmerited justification by (Christ's) surrogate act (death). The complexities of this specifically Protestant doctrine (which is, as I say, not a belief of Protestantism but its very basis) are wonderfully clarified by that vision . Now, I see myself falling back on what the reformers (following Paul) called legalism; this is when you obsessively and neurotically calculate and recalculate whether or not you have observed every regulation and piled up enough merit by your own efforts—and of course you never have and never will . There always remains a bill of particulars . And you know it . There is always something left undone or done imperfectly . Or something done wrong . It never ends . There is endless nagging worry and a sense of being imperfect; your conscience will always accuse you! Interjected authority transformed into awareness of guilt, which is to say falling short—the literal meaning of sin.
What I must—simply must—realize is that it has been supernaturally revealed to me that Paul's basic idea of justification through God's unmerited grace (divine favor and mercy) upon which Protestantism is based is true . As I sit here at this moment I realize that I will always fall short however hard I try to do right; I cannot on my own save myself and am doomed; and yet I am saved by the messenger with the spotless sheet of paper that he presents to the retributive machinery in place of the bill of particulars drawn up against me during my lifetime . This bill is accurate . [...] If I forget this I am doomed to worry my life away neurotically, feeling endlessly unworthy and a failure, deprecating myself, indicting and impugning myself, reproaching myself—as Satan does in the heavenly court; my conscience endlessly accuses me and nothing I on my own can do will satisfy it . Have I forgotten 2-74? And have I also forgotten the messenger vision? All this was done for me that I would be saved—saved in a sense from myself as accuser . I find myself cursed with a sense of unworthiness . I am not a proud and stubborn person; I am ashamed . Christ died to give me new life and to justify me and all this has been supernaturally revealed to me . Yet I find myself doing it again, accusing myself for falling short . This is not a small matter; I live with this daily . Every new day stimulates my endless sense of unworthiness . That night when I realized in a flash that 2-3-74 was sudden justification and my awareness of it—have I forgotten that already, that understanding? 2-3-74 (as proved, e.g., by the messenger
VALIS is the cypher book—code book—to the whole 10 volume meta-novel . And will someday be read as such . And Valis is Gnostic/Mani but secretly Holy Mother Church . [...] As with God's strategy, the sequence is
[ 81: K-317] The diagram on the previous page—and what I say there—explains why VALIS resembles Ubik and Ubik . This is how the gnosis is smuggled past the angels (
[ 81: K-353] Dream: There is a group of us . We discover that reality—the universe—is actually info . One of us (a girl) recognizes the info as her own prior thought . With a groan I realize that this means the universe is based on our own prior thoughts . We are forgetful cosmocrators, trapped in a universe of our own making without our knowing it . And I think ,
It is like Maze . The trail which I relentlessly pursue in my exegesis consists of [...] tracks that lead back to—surprise—myself . In discovering the laws of God I am doing nothing more than discovering my own nature, as in (Philanthropia).29 The grand illusion is in fact the grand tautology . Finally decipher the writing (info, messages as basis of reality) and discover I've written it myself: imprisoned in my own mind, with my recirculated thoughts, as in Frozen Journey —solipsism . Thus no new knowledge is possible (i.e., synthetic propositions) (only analytical). I thought Prajapati wholly other other
All that is needed is to perform the tat tvam asi
Seven and a half years ago the voice that speaks to me—I call it, as in VALIS, the AI voice—told me that a new savior would be born, and, as you know, it has added further details from time to time, the most recent statement coming about two years ago when it said ,
What I realized last night (now that I have heard the new kerygma) is that, very simply, this is Teilhard de Chardin's noösphere, Point Omega, the evolution of the biosphere (which is the same thing as ecosphere) into a collective consciousness and that collective consciousness (Teilhard believed) is the Cosmic Christ; hence when I saw VALIS I saw the Logos—the Cosmic Christ—as trees and weeds and debris, which is to say, as all nature itself . Furthermore, it either processed information or was itself information . It is a titanic biological organism that is evolving; as it does so it
as I say in VALIS . This is a measure of increasing negentropy . The AI voice that I hear is the voice of the ecosphere/biosphere . A number of times over the years I have thought of this possibility, that VALIS is Teilhard's Point Omega, the Cosmic Christ into which the total unified biosphere of this planet is evolving as it becomes more and more complex, structured, organized, negentropic; this is the vast meta-structure that I wrote you about recently that transcends time, space and causation, the hyper-structure that is pure form, insubstantial, pure organization of any and all discrete objects in nature, as Luther speaks of . Thus what I have experienced and what I have discovered—none of this is now; Teilhard described it all in The Phenomenon of Man; it now incarnates once more as and in a man, in order to communicate with us (Tagore). But this lies outside Christianity; it is for all life and is not bound by any one religious system . When I reflect it occurs to me that it would be natural for the collective consciousness of the ecosphere to incarnate in a Buddhist-Hindu form, because of their concern for animals (conspicuously lacking in Christianity, as Rabbi Hertz points out). The dark-skinned man wearing a loincloth and surrounded by cattle (cows) —which is what I saw—is how Lord Krishna is pictured; this is the way the savior would appear to them . But I say, it is all one deity: it is the wisdom of God, Hagia Sophia, speaking now not just for the ecosphere but as the ecosphere, its noösphere or collective consciousness into which it has evolved, as Teilhard taught . He speaks of complexification of the biosphere as it becomes more complex; this is what I experienced when I saw VALIS . I saw it evolving as biological organisms evolve, and I conjectured that here was an ultra-terrestrial life form, a UTI . This possibility is put forth in VALIS, along with the realization that it is the Logos, Christ, invading nature and assimilating it
transforming it from the irrational—the non-rational primordial will to live that Schopenhauer speaks of as underlying life—into the rational, conscious Logos . Thus this is evolutionary; when the biosphere/ecosphere becomes conscious, it becomes rational, hence becomes Logos ,
So here I have independently confirmed Teilhard's vast theory...and I have only read The Phenomenon of Man recently, so it did not influence me in my experience of 1974; to me at that time Teilhard de Chardin
I asked Fat if he was sure he wanted to talk about this, since he would only be proving the pathology of his condition . He replied ,
Tagore teaches that when the ecosphere is burned, God himself is burned, for the Christ has invaded the ecosphere and invisibly assimilated it to himself through transubstantiation—which is the great vision Horselover Fat has in my novel VALIS . Thus Christ and the ecosphere are either one or rapidly becoming one—much as Teilhard de Chardin describes in The Phenomenon of Man . The ecosphere does not evolve into the Cosmic Christ, however; Christ penetrates it, which is exactly what Fat saw and which so amazed him . Thus Christ now speaks out—not just for the salvation of mankind or certain men, the elect —but for the ecosphere as a whole, from the snail darter on up . This is a systems concept and was beyond their vocabulary in apostolic times; it has to do with the indivisibility of all life on this planet, as if this planet itself were alive . And Christ is both the soma (body) and psyche (the head) of that collective life . Hence the ultimate statement by Tagore—expressed by his voluntary passion and death—is, He who wounds the ecosphere literally wounds God . Thus a macro-crucifixion is taking place now, in and as our world, but we do not see it; Tagore, the new incarnation in human form of the Logos, tells us this in order to appeal to us to stop . If we continue we will lose God's Presence and, finally, we will lose our own physical lives . The oceans especially are menaced; Tagore speaks of this most urgently . When each canister of radioactive wastes is dumped into the ocean, a new stigma appears on Tagore's terribly burned, seared legs . Fat was horrified by the sight of these burns, the legs of the savior drawn up in pain . Fat did not see Tagore's face, only his tragically burned body, and yet (Fat tells me) there was an ineffable sweetness about Tagore
The ecosphere is Christ . This is what we must learn: when we wound the ecosphere we literally wound him; hence the cautionary significance of my vision of Valis, the Corpus Christi in/as nature . We must acquire this vision so that we will grasp why the ecosphere is holy . (Because it is Christ .) (Put another way: Christ
[ 62: C-38] This explains my vision of Pinky's death as the death of the savior, and my extrapolation that when each living creature dies, it is Christ dying . I said ,
[ 62: C-40] If I did not believe all this (which my 9-81 vision expressed) I would today upon seeing the Agent Orange birth defects, hearing about the Soviet micro-toxin T-2 and hearing Sunday night about the blankets infected with smallpox sold to the Indian tribe to wipe them out—I would go crazy . Thus the vision (which came last week) preserved my sanity as of today (9-23-81). It is necessary for me to know that God has acted in the face of these horrors, how he has acted, and what he will do if we continue . So hallucination or divine revelation, I must believe in Tagore and his kingdom . It is my private religion, based on a wide variety of sources . Hebrew (the Day of YHWH), Christian (the vicarious atonement/sacrifice), modern theological-scientific (Teilhard), Buddhism (concern for all life, human and otherwise, equally), Hindu (Krishna as avatar of Vishnu—the sustainer whose 3 giant steps mark his stride, as he comes in aid), Gnosticism (eventually the spark of light that fell into incarnation in physical shell, in this prison world will be extricated and will return to the pleroma). There is nothing in my syncretistic system that is original, and all elements are—for me, for my sanity on this day, the autumnal equinox—essential . No one system would do . Be it YHWH, Christ, Vishnu or Krishna, I must believe he sees and he acts . If I believed that he did not see, or did not care and hence would not act, I could not go on . The vision came in time, which itself—its coming and coming in time—is a micro-instance of God seeing and acting . Going back to the day at the movie newsreel (when I was a kid) in which I saw the Japanese soldier running and burning, continuing to the rat I killed, to the TV footage of the Galapagos turtle, to the use of napalm in Vietnam today, my great spiritual problem has been to find a way I could handle the issue of suffering, human and animal . The 9-81 vision alluded to the burn—and hence injury to her legs—suffered by my sister—that led to her death, so for me it is evident that the ultimate problem confronting me all my life has been the senseless injury to and neglect of my sister . The 9-81 vision dealt with Jane, with the burning Japanese soldier, the rat and turtle, the napalm, with it all: the vision of Tagore and his kingdom is the quintessential summation of my whole life's struggle to come to terms with these matters which are in essence one matter showing up over and over again . Thus my mystical experiences—starting in '63 when I saw the Palmer Eldritch visage and the sky and going on to 2-74—2-75 and after—culminate in 9-81 as the payoff of my need and my attempt to forge a satisfactory explanation for what is to me the ultimate issue: not
as my 10-volume meta-novel might indicate, but ,
[ 62: C-48] Horselover Fat is real only insofar as he is part of me—so stipulated in the letter initially . But later in the letter (as in VALIS) he is treated as a real, independent person . Viz :
[ 62: C-56] Dream: on a bank of TV screens, scenes of a hunt in progress; the victim is a lovely large white bird . I become very angry at the hunt itself and at all the people watching it as a video game/sport . I lash out at them, saying I won't watch, and I say ,
This dream clearly ties in Tagore's Kerygma (about saving the animals) with Rome and hence with the Empire and hence with early Christianity . Now not humans are the victims of the blood sports for the populace but animals . But it is the same cruelty . Oh—"Caesar"was said sardonically, in reference to Reagan! Good Lord! Look, then, what the dream shows, at least about my feelings/perception! About who is the enemy, and who we are . Christianity in its time sanctifies human life (the opposite of which was the Roman games) but now all life—animal life—the ecosphere itself must be sanctified, and this is done through its investiture by Christ . To see
[ 62: C-57] Hypnogogic: I mail out the 85 notices —the Ed Meskys Xerox image: marathon runners carrying the torch: two of them, picking up the torch and running in different directions; i.e., out of the 85 people, there are at least two of the right people
The ragtag motley band of believers who wrote me when I published VALIS—I was thinking . Believers ,
Like 2,000 years ago . There need be no underground.
[ 62: C-74] Dream/hypnagogic: I have a wound on my leg, a vast vagina like healing wound, like a slit . A voice is saying ,
