he has a visa and a passport ,
TV and radio once ,
The Day of Declaration
familiar face on the TV screen
a worldwide satellite media hookup.
overshadow the world, dropping into the zone of silence in the mind [directly].
are already in us; he articulates what we already feel; we say, upon hearing him, 'This is my man'; Buddha to the Buddhists, Krishna to the Hindus, the Messiah to the Jews, whatever to the Muslims, Christ to us ,
who are the secret invisible government ruling the world for benign purposes.
There must be another way (in which the fish is not caused to suffer )
of someone more rational, more educated, more— ,
pity's [i.e., compassion's] highest power
compassion's highest power
here, my son, time turns into space
pity's highest power
Greater love hath no man than that he give up his life for his friend
we all survive together as a planet or we all die together ,
That one got out of control ,
Phil Dick is moving toward madness
the lethal damage done by the inquiring mind
The AI voice is myself, myself as perfected, realized self, outside of the BIP ,
We did not fall because we sinned; our error—which caused our fall—was an intellectual one: we took the phenomenal world—i.e., the 4-D world with its defective space and its spurious time—to be real.
Gnosticism is the solution
I think therefore I am
I learn therefore I am
I write, I learn, I evolve and grow; therefore I am.
he has been transplanted and is alive.
parousia and Holy Mother Church
beam of pink light
two mirror self-correcting sequence of ever more precise approximations
The whole of him thinks ,
Extinct true kosmos and it still there ,
A perturbation in the reality field.
That's what's there.
For pain . For hope.
He is out there somewhere.
For pain, for hope
For I am building a new heaven and new earth....
plugging into a galactic information network.
Almost nine thousand pages
What I have experienced is initiation into the greater Eleusian mysteries, and these have to do with Dionysus...The AI voice now precisely defined itself and what it has revealed to me: the greater mysteries
Mysteries by which we are formed and moulded from a rude and savage state of humanity; and, indeed, in the Mysteries we perceive the real principles of life, and learn not only to live happily, but to die with a fairer hope
die with a fairer hope
the act of looking at ,
the real principles of life.
the criterion of a true philosophy; namely, that it would at once explain and collect the fragments of truth scattered through systems apparently the most incongruous.
mind regarding itself.
turnabout in the seat of consciousness
union with the cosmos
sticks, rattles and other instruments ,
Light, a Drawing, and a Power ,
