in the twinkling of an eye
Well, see, we're all in a state of sin
and God's grace redeems us unexpectedly . But we have to have faith, which is to say total trust, in the power of that grace.
Literally, God is not ,
Is it this or that—
Both this and that.
in the twinkling of an eye
is] it this or is it that ,
it is both.
What do you see all around you? You see Rome.
I know exactly what I'm going to say next, and what gestures he'll make ,
If this could only be done—
Where is He, the Savior, now?
Hold out/Hold out/We are coming.
My outside is just for laughs . My inner self growing, grows wiser every day—wiser and older, surpassing the outer long ago.
strangely different koinos kosmos ,
No force, no motion has now/she neither sees nor hears ,
hears and sees ,
We sent half a man to the moon ,
What value does this metaphysical Eternal Real World of Forms of Plato have, since we can never encounter or experience it? Doesn't pragmatism show us that it is unnecessary to believe in it? All events can be explained just as well without it?
But later on for eight hundred years people did experience Plato's world of the Idea ,
This is coca COLA! I remember it from the twentieth century!
The universe which we perceive is a hologram ,
Why are we here?
in the twinkling of an eye ,
protecting those who ...
meek and mild ,
as he really is ,
soldiers in business suits ,
is the world real?
It does not compute.
Prince of this World
Hymn of the Soul ,
Acts of Thomas ,
What is that you are wearing?
It's a sign that the early Christians used . My husband gave it to me.
Hymn of the Soul
Linda! I dreamed this building you're showing me!
You turn north, I'll spin for you an entire world and a wonderful one which you'll love.
You turn south, I'll plant you in a little town and it'll be a whole universe, that little town, with dreams about other towns in the north, rumors of wealth you will treasure as rumors.
You decided to live dead-center, and I will show you that the Tao, which is what you have found in Fullerton, because there you do speak in public, you do receive royal guests, but near you is the poor barrio, and you're stuck in Fullerton forever as if you were poor—you decide on the Tao, the Middle Path, and I will show you that each path is the Middle Path, that there is no universe which I can't make complete . You can't be where I am not . And if I am there, which I always am, it is a total world, good as any other.
The Gospel According to John
Is it not written in your own law ,' I said: You are gods'? Those are called gods to whom the word of God was delivered—and Scripture cannot be set aside.
rouse us from half-life
helium filled balloons rising now
the crabs and other life forms under wa ter, such as butterflies
people renting space above ceiling of store who leave notes on bulletin board . Dream, too, of the Bob Silverberg Commission, which is investigating something—for U.S . Government.
he was dressed in the Greek style.
... I have fitted the fawn-skin to their bodies.
... Though not necessarily sacramental, these rites enabled the Maenads to surmount the barrier that separated them from the supernatural world and to surrender themselves unconditionally to the mighty powers that transcended time and space, thus carrying them into the realm of the eternal
