I just wondered if you ...
Like, wanted a ride . On the sidewalk?
In broad daylight?
Maybe in a doorway . Or pull me into a car.
I know you ,
And Arctor would snuff me if I did that.
Well, I didn't recognize you.
I'm sorta nearsighted.
You ought to wear contacts.
I did have . But one fell out into a punch bowl . Acid punch, at a party . It sank to the bottom, and I guess someone dipped it up and drank it . I hope it tasted good; it cost me thirty-five dollars, originally.
You want a ride where you're going?
You'll bang me in the car.
I can't get it on right now, these last couple of weeks . It must be something they're adulterating all the stuff with . Some chemical.
That's a neat-o line, but I've heard it before . Everybody bangs me.
Tries to, anyhow . That's what it's like to be a chick . I'm suing one guy in court right now, for molestation and assault . We're asking punitive damages in excess of forty thousand.
How far'd he get?
Got his hand around my boob.
That isn't worth forty thousand.
You got anything to sell?
I'm really hurting . I'm virtually out, in fact, hell, I am out, come to think of it . Even a few, if you could spare a few.
I can get you some.
I don't shoot up.
But, see, they're real scarce right now—the supply's temporarily dried up . You probably discovered that already . I can't get you very many, but—
Day after tomorrow ,
If I can git ahold of this guy . I think I can.
No sooner? Not like, say, tonight?
Tomorrow at the earliest.
Sixty dollars a hundred.
Oh, Jeez ,
That's a burn.
They're super good . I've got them from him before; they're really not what you usually buy into . Take my word for it—they're worth it . Actually, I prefer to get them from him rather than from anybody else—when I can . He doesn't always have them . See, he just took a trip down south, I guess . He just got back . He picked them up himself, so I know they're good for sure . And you don't have to pay me in advance . When I get them . Okay? I trust you.
I never front ,
Sometimes you have to.
Then can you get me at least a hundred?
It's lucky for you that you ran into me ,
I'm supposed to see this one dude in about an hour, and he'd probably take all I could get...you'd have been out of luck . This was your day.
I wish you could get them sooner ,
If I do ...
How do I get hold of you, and I forget your name.
Charles B. Freck ,
I think I remember you ,
Sort of . It's all hazy, that night; I was really out of it . All I definitely remember was getting the powder into those little caps—Librium caps—we dumped the original contents . I must have dropped half . I mean, on the floor.
You seem like a mellow dude ,
And you'll be in the market later on? After a while you'll want more?
Want to go with me to see Jerry Fabin?
I'm taking a load of his things over to him at the Number Three Federal Clinic, where they took him last night . I'm just carting over a little at a time, because there's a chance he might get back out and I don't want to have to drag it all back.
I'd better not see him ,
You know him? Jerry Fabin?
Jerry Fabin thinks I contaminated him originally with those bugs.
Well, then he didn't know what they were . I better stay away . Last time I saw him he got really hostile . It's his receptor sites, in his brain, at least I think so . It seems like it, from what the government pamphlets say now.
