thought about it incessantly ,
God present in the trash strata
I have found in beauty that which I could not myself have made; thus I have found the benchmarks . I believe, for I have the evidence that I trust; it is sufficient.
Christ in us ,
You have to work at becoming Christ ,
returning to me ,
birth in the spirit ,
reach a working relationship with
enter into a partnership with ,
enter into a syzygy ,
any living organism delays its decay into thermal equilibrium (death) by its capacity to maintain itself at a fairly high level of orderliness (and hence fairly low level of entropy) by continually absorbing negative entropy from its environment.
out of sequence.
the secret stolen, through the angels, in one's hands
I won't believe this when I wake up because the implications are too depressing and radical.
The time you've waited for has come . The work is complete; the final world is here . He has been transplanted and is alive.
subsumes its environment into arrangements of information ,
folding in onto itself
through something like transubstantiation ,
the element of the rational in the universe ,
No, Phil; they'll think it's you.
like music and perfume and colors ,
Christ dies for them.
Ti to on?
What is the total context in which the unmerited suffering and death of living creatures can be coherently understood?
Fat saw Tagore but I did not.
Maybe Caesar will put in an appearance.
ragtag motley band.
an ineffable beauty, absolute, not relative, loving beauty, like music and perfume and colors.
Wounded and in pain and in mortal peril cries out for our help.
If the ecosphere dies
if my body dies
the Buddha is in the Park.
the savior saved.
seizing Fate by the throat
a perturbation in the reality field
I lead him back to his throne.
idea, word and writing of the word are the thing itself.
for by feeding on the plants and animals that sprang from his body, men actually feed on the very substance of the demi-divinity
a perturbation (of the reality field).
hard rind of the letter.
we are living at the time and place of 'Acts '
the time and place of 'Acts '
and you are your own au dience.
A perturbation in the reality field
Horselover Fat is insane
It is between this hidden principle of the terrestrial person and its heavenly original that the ultimate recognition and reunion takes place . Thus the function of the garment in our narrative as the celestial form of the invisible because temporarily obscured self is one of the symbolic representations of an extremely widespread and, to the Gnostics, essential doctrine . It is no exaggeration to say that the discovery of this transcendent inner principle in man and the supreme concern about its destiny is the very center of gnostic religion
change is only seeming
The voice of the ecosphere
We will hear it.
last time water, next time fire
