No, strangely, from this one.
the loading had begun
Oh dreadful day!
Oh wretched me, to be here on this day!
The Nameless God ,
popped into existence ahead of us.
painted in the corner
Now it all can be explained to you, what it was all about
Christ didn't die for us; he was an example which each of us must follow, and suffer as he did to attain what he attained ,
Now you grieve but later you will rejoice ,
I am God ,
I have become/turned into God.
In a crypt 2,000 years old I have discovered new news!
The first of the old prophecies are beginning to take place ,
The Buddha is in the Park ,
Rest . You'll be guided when the time comes.
seeds of the future being buried in the present.
I entered sadness ,
Behold! I tell you a sacred secret; we must all be changed ,
The Time prophesized has come.
What do you have to do to enter the Kingdom of Heaven?
You have to do (experience, go through) a lot to enter the Kingdom of Heaven; you can't do it like you are; you've got to be very much changed, and receive the Spirit ,
Portuguese States of America
is a god of vegetation
in my 3rd eye or inner mind or mind's eye ,
on the Other Side ,
My divine children, whom I am preparing
My God, why hast thou forsaken me?
the star of love ,
The generative principle of all life.
Man is not as wise as some stones, which in the dark, point toward their homes.
inward suffering before God ,
I've got my memories ,
St . Sophia.
You're a Gnostic.
Mrs. Jack Vance.
You are in danger; do this, do that.
It is all very simple ,
He has returned but is invisible; no one can see him ,
The three lights coming on indicate the return of Christ.
I have a way of telling when the Parousia comes! One of my circuits which is usually dormant will light up! No one else has it!
What do you want out of life?
I am wisdom: I would know [of any other God].
Like lightning I will be everywhere at once.
time is round.
buzz about with joy like bees.
impossible that you would do ,
floating up and all singing (buzzing like bees) in unison
floating and buzzing joyfully
Ode to Joy.
