all this—my research—is sterile (i.e., cold, devoid of feeling).
It is a great victory to have your book made into one of the biggest movies of all time ,
The love that moves the sun and the other stars
PKD now (12-81) is very much what Thomas was in 3-74
Christ's return in glory
You are now permitted to be happy (Felix) at last.
will wipe away every tear.
... unless you ravish me
ti to on?
We see all things in God.
ti to on?
A long extinct true cosmos and it's still there.
Spinoza's 3rd attribute: infinity.
not two mothers once but one mother twice
Deus sive substantia sive natura
is identical to.
Not 2 mothers once but one mother seen twice
The masks are off ,
I am a man
It wasn't worth it
The Exit Door Leads In.
spiraling into himself and slowly going crazy.
one day nothing new came into his mind
horizontal tracking and retrack ing
Here, my son, time turns into space.
I am no longer blind.
Frau, sing für unsere Freunde
Frau, sing für unsere Freunde
for the visually impaired
she turned into an ape ,
The Garden of Earthly Delight: Mathilde singing.
the King of Light
she turned into an ape
God is the Book of the universe.
the universe is information.
neutral voice inside us
He who wounds the ecosphere literally wounds God
One of the primordial twins [this woman who died long ago]. She was one half of the divine syzygy . The purpose of the narrative is the recollection of her and of her death . The mind does not wish to forget her . Thus the ratiocination of the brain consists of a permanent record of her existence, and, if read, will be understood this way . All the information processed by the brain—experienced by us as the arrangement and rearrangement of physical objects—is an attempt at this preservation of her; stones and rocks and sticks and amoeba are traces of her . The record of her existence and passing is ordered onto the meanest level of reality by the suffering mind which is now alone.
The initiate was called mystes, the introducing person mystagogos (leader of the mystes).
And when a man died, he was buried in the earth to partake mystically in the cyclic renewal of life . This was the message of Eleusis: out of every grave new life grows—for the initiate [myself] there are 'good hopes' for glorious immortality in the afterlife.
Isle of the Blessed
the brain that both makes and perceives (receives back as given) reality.
His voice will be heard in your mind in your own language, but it will seem to come from the TV.
I am no longer blind!
God slumbered in the pot, the little clay pot.
in the long, old-fashioned dress
Also, the climate seemed wrong; the air was too dry and too hot: not the right altitude and not the right humidity . Fat had the subjective impression that a moment ago he'd been living in the high, cool, moist (sic!) region of the world
The main thing is, her teeth are okay
the secret apostolic authentic Christian underground
in a large town in a modern country
