It assimilated 3 of my books.
It let the courier have a glimpse of the info he was carrying.
What is the real like? And how do we find it?
How did this irreal world come into being? And how did we get imprisoned here?
What is our real nature?
one by one he takes us out of this world.
The apostolic age Christians declared in their writing ...
Obvious secular world ...
the pleroma including the fallen universe ...
Put another way, Acts is a Book (part) within our world (whole)...
Here is the puzzle of Valis ...
Lincoln—'we print the truth' ...
the phenomenal world is suddenly apprehended ...
Isn't it perfectly clear in 'Ubik' that world is not real ...
Zebra is a person ,
Zebra is not a person ,
The mind has the power to change its environment . We do so constantly.
What is true?
What modulations shall I imprint on the stuff around me?
These are instructions to the dead.
I figured out the reality situation well enough to generate a future reality which will please me . Not be painful . I beat Karma and in 3-74 took control.
coming back from a trip around the whole universe
streak of the irrational
we are in a decomposing, declining, entropic halving dialectic process, constantly proportionately more and more vitiated.
if x then y.
There's someone else in my head and he's not living in this century.
I am the commercial—compared to the program.
a womb for her to grow her progeny in.
A womb for her to grow her progeny in.
How can a man be born again?
plugged into an idea computer.
Every idea thought of is true but for no measurable length of time because it—i.e., its truth—is instantly negated by an equal and opposite idea, and so forth ,
every idea thought of is true
but for no measurable length of time
I was born in Chicago in 1928 but an instant ago I was living in first century A.D. Rome
Who perturbed the reality field?
The virtues instilled by suffering could be achieved another way.
the evil seen and the good guessed at
... the greatest effect is produced when the fate is represented as a higher intelligent will
the human will was exhibited as struggling with fate
a higher and intelligent will
higher and intelligent will
VALIS' activity is a binary system of off-on . We see only the 'on' of the off-on arrangements . We do not see them as arrangements but merely as change.
the rational invading the irrational
St. Elmo's Fire
like inspiration with the boundless called 'breath . '
... The principle that like is known by like; hence, an understanding of the divine universe would bring man's nature closer to its own.
An organic whole, particularly one that like the universe lives forever, must of necessity exhibit limit and order in the highest degree.
... for these teachings grow of themselves to be part of the individual character...but if you go after other things, wretched things that blunt the concern for thought, then after some time these teachings will all at once desert you, in their desire to regain their own kindred . For you must know that everything has thought, and a share of intelligence . You shall learn all the medicines that keep all illness and old age— ,
the new heavens and a new Earth
