I'll begin clearing away the sand of fifty thousand centuries for my first vegetable garden . That's the initial step.
What is it to be human?
What is the nature of the universe?
hundreds of thousands of absolutely terrific modern art pictures as good as any ever exhibited...more than all the modern art pictures that exist put together.
red and gold plasmatic entity ,
Rome, Rome, everywhere ,
Summary of the Exegesis Based on Preliminary Forays
selecting out the most coherent portions.
I proved to be an idiot savant ,
much to their disgust.
If you take it for what it is ,
If you care for this sort of thing ,
He'd call you up at eleven in the morning and say ,' I just figured out some stuff—I just figured out the universe—why don't you come over .' Possibly he'd written until six A.M., then slept from six to eleven . I'd say ,' I've gotta go to work . Write it down so you don't forget it .' One day I said, 'Oh, yeah, and can you write it as a limerick?' When I showed up he gave me two versions.
Every day was starting again from zero . It was never cumulative . And every now and then he'd say: 'It's all nonsense . It's all acid flashbacks .' He'd be down, terribly depressed . For one thing it would mean he'd wasted years . Then he'd be off again . He called me one day and said, 'Powers, my researches have led me to believe I have the power to forgive sins .' I said, 'Well, who have you forgiven?' He said, 'Nobody...I forgave the cat's sins and went to bed . '
the only living writer I wanted to meet ,
Later, visiting to recruit him for Raw magazine, I thought: This guy's on the skids somehow . The apartment was the worst version of the Philip Marlowe housing complex . But he was studying Aramaic . I was struck, thinking, That's intense! There's not too many people doing that . Yet it didn't seem like a good influence on him—he seemed burdened by all this stuff . Crushed . I do remember expressing excitement about one idea, and he lit up . He'd figured out why evil exists on earth: we were in a bubble, and God couldn't get to us . I liked that image, and we talked about it for a while.
Phil was pixieish and self-effacing, always ready to make himself the butt of the joke . He sat thinking with his head back and lips pursed a little . He smiled small before he smiled big . He had long fingers like a piano player's . White hairy chest peeking over his top button . His skin was pale . His lips were red . His cheeks had a tiny blush . He was like a clever fox, but tired, like he didn't sleep much . He told me more than once about the miracle of his intuiting his son's potentially fatal internal hernia . He'd take a big breath before he spoke because he knew the sentences would be long . His hands were lithe and expressive, often mirroring each other palm to palm . He had soulful, heartful eyes . With other people he could've played other roles, because he was a theatrical and prankish person . He laughed a lot.
I do remember that around Christmas of '81 he was convinced that the world would end in a couple of months . And it did, for him . I thought: Not bad—you were close.
The Riddle of TLE
an unusual degree of concern with morality, philosophy, and mysticism, sometimes leading to multiple religious conversions ,
Here ends four years and six months of analysis and research ,
Time is unmasked as irreal; 1,900 years are disclosed as aspect of one underlying matrix...my 27 years of writing the same themes over and over again fits into place; 2-74 and 3-74 is comprehensible, as is the overthrow of Nixon; the transtemporal constants have been explicated...perhaps I should destroy the Exegesis . It is a journey that reached its goal.
What lies hiding within each object? A garden, so to speak.
There are no gold prisons.
The schizophrenic is a leap ahead that failed.
To remember and to wake up are absolutely interchangeable.
All that is colossal is fraud.
The physical universe is plastic in the face of mind.
Reality lacks discretionary power.
What's got to be gotten over is the false idea that an hallucination is a private matter.
'One day the masks will come off, and you will understand all'—it came to pass, and I was one of the masks.
the universe is moving backward ,
They would thus ,
carry information from the future into our present, as light and X rays from distant galaxies carry information from the remote past of the universe into our now and here . In the light of these developments, we can no longer exclude on a priori grounds the theoretical possibility of precognitive phenomena.
contained prophecies about the future ,
God has shown me the sacred tablets in which the future is written
That's me you're writing about there in your book.
It's a code you used ,
to cover over my name so I wouldn't know . But I do know.
That just proves how clever you are ,
You even knew about me in advance.
They're out there in the air somewhere ,
and I just fish them in.
book of prophecies ,
when you somehow acquire knowledge you shouldn't have ,
have no way of having ,
... Then the Sibyl takes him through mystic passages of the Blissful Groves where those who led good lives bask in green valleys and endless joys
California dreaming is becoming a reality ,
Lie to me.
He is a liar; he is a liar ,
