smallest song of the birds.
Ubik: The Deconstruction of Bourgeois SF ,
Order from Disorder.
Even Sheep Can Upset Scientific Detachment ,
For it was fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, blameless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens
For it is attested of him, 'You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek '
Lost in the Stars
Philip K. Dick and the Umbrella of Light ,
hierarchy of needs.
The Unteleported Man ,
one great blooming, buzzing confusion.
The Song of the Happy Shepherd.
I knew about the Fish sign, too, the Savior: I called him 'Tunny ,' from a del Monte billboard for some canned food . We had to travel under the Oakland Estuary in the Alameda Tube, and I saw the tube like a can; at the end we emerged in the sunlight and I saw the billboard with 'Tunny' on it . I loved ol' Tunny, the great fish....
A Light struck meadow for Tony Hiss & the Real World . Hark! Each tree its silence breaks—Nicholas Brady , 1692.
Faith of Our Fathers ,
Trust Your Body Rhythms ,
Leda and the Swan.
Welcome, good Robin./See'st thou this sweet sight?
When you make the two one, and when you make the inside as the outside, and the outside as the inside, and the upper side as the lower; and when you make the male and the female into a single one, that the male be not male and the female female; when you make eyes in the place of an eye, and a hand in place of a hand, and a foot in place of a foot, an image in place of an image, then shall you enter [the kingdom].
Elegy Written in a Country Church-Yard.
Darkening of the Light.
Greater Than Gods ,
If You Find This World Bad, You Should See Some of the Others.
Writers and Editors War Tax Protest
I Am Doing No Good!
Mekkis, the Hittite word for power; it had passed into the Sanskrit, then into Greek, Latin, and at last into modern English as machine and mechanical.
Ayenbite of Inwyt ,
Prick (or Remorse) of Conscience ,
To be awake is nothing but to be dreaming under the control of the object; it is to be pursuing science to the comparative exclusion of mere mental vegetation and spontaneous myth.
In the beginning was the deed.
stems from an attempt made by William Sarill and myself to develop an abstract, logical system of religious thought, based on the arbitrary postulate that God exists.
the power of being which resists non-being.
Das Ewig-Weiblich/Zieht uns hinan
Listen, I tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed—in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet.
total Party functionary.
Beyond Lies the Wub ,
Ode: Intimations of Immortality.
Not by Its Cover.
Shakespeare's English Historical Plays ,
The Equilibrium of Tragedy ,
Adventure Thru Inner Space ,
Ode to Joy ,
Talmud and Midrash ,
It was the devil's envy that brought death into the world, as those who are his part ners will discover . But the souls of the virtuous are in the hands of God, no torment shall ever touch them.
Mitleids höchste Kraft/und reinsten Wissens Macht
unresolvable metaphysical matters.
A Song for St. Cecilia's Day.
Overdrawn at the Memory Bank
not at home.
the renewing fish that's sliced forever
