I am getting all back what I lost ,
not supposed to be there and hence unconvincing or suspicious in nature.
found his way home
been led home.
Faith of Our Fathers
Why the hell would healing these bodies for us be a primary act on His part, especially since these bodies will die anyhow; they're healed, but they aren't made into anything but what they are, i.e., they aren't immortal.
pre natal care ,
listening for very weak signals to transduce ,
Leda and the Swan
Gifts of the Spirit ,
First fruits of the harvest ,
too filled up ,
Beware of hubris.
awareness of being possessed ,
God can simulate the inanimate . Or rather, God can pretend to be anything he wants, any part of His creation . He can replace any part, be it.
this is my body and this is my blood . I am here.
and has no hands
Who sweeps out and knows even the heart of the Father.
I have had a dream like no other dream I ever had ,
does not answer yes or no; he gives a sign.
You can view God as being every thing or every where.
And she shall see the sea ,
An inability to be shucked.
the meaningful structure of reality ,
I am the breath of my Creator, and as He inhales and exhales, I live
murder most foul!
came back to him in seances ,
The death of his servant is precious to the Lord God.
Hamlet's father crying murder most foul
to type them up
set it spinning.
God's in his heaven; all's right with the world.
Only the dead see God.
finding in the gutter among the degenerate molecules a sacerdotal power buried for aeons.
Saint Sophia is going to be born again.
I am the All
in remembrance of Me
Thou didst not see what I saw, Robin ,
Time would be abrogated ,
The Kingdom will come when the outer is the inner, the bigger the smaller, the man the woman ,
the image the image ,
The stone rejected by the builder ,
model of the universe
Be as little children
break a stick and there am I; and I am the All
the beloved physician ,
This man is a literate Greek, he's a physician and has something to do with 'Acts . '
born of woman ,
I've recovered some buried memories, of about two thousand years ago.
From a previous life?
