"Tomorrow morning ,"he decided ,
This passage was written by the American novelist Philip K. Dick in 1980 . Taken alone, the handful of lines might seem to be an extract from a lucid and elegant fugue on metaphysics and ontology—an inquiry, in other words, into matters of being and the purposes of consciousness, suffering, and existence itself . This particular passage would not strike anyone versed in philosophical or theological discourse as violently original, apart from an intriguing sequence of metaphorical slippages—printed, forged, extracted, converted—and the almost subliminal conflation of the universe
Dick came to call this writing his Exegesis.
The attempt eventually came to cover over eight thousand sheets of paper, largely handwritten . Dick often wrote through the night, running an idea through its paces over as many as a hundred sheets during a sleepless night or in a series of nights . These feats of superhuman writing are astonishing to contemplate; they impressed even an established graphomaniacal writer like Dick, who had once written seven novels in a single year . The fundamental themes of the Exegesis come as no surprise . The body of work that established Dick's reputation—his forty-odd realist and surrealist novels written between 1952 and his death in 1982—concerns itself with questions like
What will be needed by a reader coming to the Exegesis, however, whether familiar or not with Dick's great novels, is a brief encapsulation of what both Dick and Sutin call 2-3-74
Then to 1974: Dick now lived in Orange County, with a wife and young child . After receiving a dose of sodium pentothal during a visit to the dentist for an impacted wisdom tooth, Dick went home and later opened his door to a pharmacy delivery-girl bearing a painkiller and wearing a gold necklace depicting a fish, which she identified as a sign used by early Christians . At that moment, by his testimony, Dick experienced anamnesis
Yet that doorway meeting with the fish necklace was only the first vision . In March Dick enjoyed two separate, unsleeping, nightlong episodes of visual psychedelia, the second of which he describes memorably as
Next, he found himself compelled to perform a home baptism on his son, Christopher . Then he was visited by a
Readers will learn here of the Xerox missive —a mailed broadside of some sort, possibly from an ordinary basement Communist organization, which Dick understood as a dire test of his new and visionary self-protective instinct: it needed to be disposed of . Dick believed that he was inhabited by another personality with different habits and character, someone more forceful and decisive than himself—in the Exegesis he auditions various candidates for this role—who steps in to fire his agent and field the Xerox missive . Our hero sees
Beyond 1974, he endured voices, visions, and prophetic dreams too numerous to list here—all to be enfolded, by the writer, into the cascade of interpretation of those earlier events . A reader will learn how readily and fluently a new revelation transforms Dick's sense of the core facts
The Exegesis, an unruly and unlikely manuscript that threatened to defy editorial ambition, remained terra incognita . Its first scholar, Jay Kinney, published a
in 1984 . Estimating the document at two million words, Kinney defined requirements for its publication: transcription from the handwritten pages; an attempt at chronological resequencing; and
He rightly called this prospect staggering . With Williams and a few volunteers, Kinney's venture at least accomplished the photocopying and inventory of the eight-thousand-plus pages . At one point a distributed transcription effort was begun by mail—"swarm scholarship"before the Web . Kinney, in his article, also suggested that the published Exegesis could be the basis for the founding of a Dickian religion ,
Next, biographer Lawrence Sutin edited 1991's In Search of Valis: Selections from the Exegesis, a volume that thrilled and frustrated a core of seekers for whom the text was increasingly taking on the status of legend . Less than three hundred pages long, In Search of Valis presented an array of enigmatic morsels that, for some, only raised questions as to what might be in the other 7,700 pages . When Paul Williams relinquished his role as literary executor in the mid-1990s, the Exegesis and other PKD manuscripts went into the custody of Dick's children . For them, the unpublished trove was fraught, since it attracted unwelcome attention and threatened to undermine their father's growing academic and literary reputation with its disreputable aura of high weirdness . For some of Dick's admirers, even the novels written in the wake of the 2-3-74 revelations are at best a footnote to what they regard as his seminal writings and, at worst, an embarrassment . (An interesting Exegesis subplot consists of Dick's reactions to meeting some of his earliest admirers in academia, whom he refers to as the Marxists and who were clearly perplexed by his metaphysical preoccupations.
Another belief we held going in: the Exegesis is terrific reading, of a kind . We might say ,
but those terms beg the question of what sort of thing it exactly is, and we are at a loss to answer that question . To give yourself to it completely, as Kinney and Sutin and ourselves—most especially the tireless Pamela—have done, demands a degree of mania and stupefaction we would not wish on another human (though we will undoubtedly not be the last). But to give yourself to it in part, at leisure, and in a spirit of curiosity can be entrancing . And to become entranced by it is—contradicting ourselves now—to want more . One last axiom, then: in the compromises and sacrifices that this effort, by its nature, imposed, we will satisfy no one . We have set another foot on Everest, reached a slightly higher station than others before us . But not the summit . That admission leads to a declaration: this book spearheads an effort to transcribe, reorganize (or, more rightly, organize
Science fiction writer Tim Powers recited these two limericks from memory, then explained ,
Tim Powers continued :
Cartoonist Art Spiegelman, then a young fan who considered Dick
made his first visit to Dick's apartment in February 1974 :
Painter and cartoonist Gary Panter offered a word-portrait :
Tim Powers alludes to a notion found in other accounts as well: that in its latter stages the Exegesis journey seemed to converge with a foreshadowing of its author's death.
Anyone interested in suggesting a medical, psychiatric, neurological, or pharmacological context for the experiences and behavior surrounding Philip K. Dick's Exegesis—and by behavior
The decades since Dick's death have been fertile ones for popular neurological case histories, frequently of creative people (call it the Oliver Sacks era). It is likely that had Dick lived longer, he would have been drawn to project his own neurological metaphors for his visionary experiences; in particular, it is hard to imagine that his restless mind would not have been eager to explore what Eve Laplante, in her 1988 article in the Atlantic Monthly, called
( temporal lobe epilepsy). The cause of electrical seizures in the brain less dangerous, and more diagnostically furtive, than grand mal epilepsy, TLE is associated in certain cases with hypergraphia (superhuman bouts of writing) and hyperreligiosity (
Temporal lobe epilepsy has, reasonably enough, drawn attention from Dick's biographers, and we should not hesitate to mention it here . Yet, given just a brief paraphrase of Dick's history, neurologist Alice Flaherty, author of The Midnight Disease: The Drive to Write, Writer's Block, and the Creative Brain, cautioned that one of any number of medical causes might easily account for Dick's hypergraphia—a TLE diagnosis is far from a foregone conclusion . Indeed, it is worth noting that Dick described hallucinatory experiences of one kind or another going back as far as grade school; that his earliest writings prefigure the ontological and moral concerns exhibited after 2-3-74; and that his boggling literary productivity during his aspirant years and first ascendancy, from 1952 to 1964, could easily be labeled hypergraphic . Dick's Exegesis is a site, then, where we reencounter one of the defining mysteries of our scientific age: the persistent elusiveness of a satisfying description of the full activities of mind
Dick's pursuit of the truth of 2-3-74 was destined, like Zeno's arrow, for no destination . Years before his death, it became apparent that these activities would not cease until the pen fell from his hands, no matter his periodic attempts at closure.
In the end the Exegesis can be viewed as a long experiment in mind-regarding-itself . The puzzle that Dick can never solve in this effort is that of his own exegetical efforts . This mind writes—why? More and more it may seem as if in describing the macrocosm Dick describes the Exegesis: the two are coextensive . Each falls victim to repetition and entropy; each grows by reticulating and arborizing; each, for its renewal, requires divine intervention in the form of language . The same questions apply to both: What saves the universe from running in useless circles until it drops? What separates the living spark of meaning from the inferior bulk of chaos and noise? Does the universe evolve or devolve? If the system is closed, then where does the new
The Exegesis began in 1974, with letters and short pieces, and grew steadily . The early pages form an epistolary detective novel, plunging the reader into the 2-3-74 revelation: Dick began his interpretations even as clues in the form of dreams, voices, and visions poured in . Soon, his letters grew longer and denser, some accompanied by enclosures of further typewritten notes
What one would expect is two fold: (1) Material (e.g., information, images, weak energy fields, etc .) from the future leaking or bleeding back to us, while we continue on . (2) Abrupt lurches back on our part to recent prior time periods, like a needle on a record being anti-skated back to a prior groove, which it has already played, and then playing on from there as if nothing happened . * The latter we would not be consciously aware of, although subcortical responses, and perhaps a vague sense of amnesia, dreams, etc., would tell us that something was wrong.
But what is most telling is that in March, at the initial height of the Holy Other
[ ...] In regards to some of the intellectual, theoretical subjects all of us discussed the day you and your friends were here to visit, I recall in particular my statement to you (which I believe you got on your tape, too) that
a rather odd statement on the face of it I admit . What I meant by that is something which at the time I could not really express, having had an experience, several in fact, but not having the terms . Now, by having read further, I have some sort of terms, and would like to describe some of my personal experiences using, in a pragmatic way, the concept of tachyons, which are supposed to be particles of cosmic origin (I am quoting Arthur Koestler) which fly faster than light and consequently in a reversed time direction.
Koes tler says ,
I had been for several months experimenting with something I read about while doing research on the brain, in particular new discoveries on split-brain phenomena, for my novel A Scanner Darkly; I had come across the fact that the brain can transduce external fields of both high and low frequency providing that the thermal factor is quite low . Also, I had read about which vitamins in megadosages can improve neural firing and produce vastly increased brain efficiency . I began attempting, on the basis of what I knew, to bring on both the hemispheres of my own brain using the recipe for megadoses of the water-soluble vitamins; at the same time I tried again and again to exclude the ordinary external electrical fields that we customarily tune into: man-made fields, which we consider signal, and at the same time I tried to directly transduce what we usually think of as noise ,
One night I found myself flooded with colored graphics which resembled the nonobjective paintings of Kandinsky and Klee, thousands of them one after the other, so fast as to resemble flash cut
For a time I imagined that an ESP experiment had somehow by accident involved me: the long-range transmission of graphics . I wrote to a lab in Leningrad and told them about my experience, having at the time the feeling that the point of origin of these signals was far distant, and hence in the USSR . Now I believe the point of origin was even farther: I think that I somehow for a short time transduced tachyon bombardment, which comes to us constantly, and which animals utilize to engram them into performing what we call instinctive actions . I had been consciously trying to transduce external weak fields, which I know to be possible, and I know that when this is done successfully the brain's efficiency is increased; however, I had no preconception of what fields I might transduce—except that I felt they would be natural and not man-made—and what information, if any, they might contain . I was hoping only for increased neural efficiency . I got more: actual information about the future, for during the next three months, almost each night, during sleep I was receiving information in the form of print-outs: words and sentences, letters and names and numbers—sometimes whole pages, sometimes in the form of writing paper and holographic writing, sometimes oddly, in the form of a baby's cereal box on which all sorts of quite meaningful information was written and typed, and finally galley proofs held up for me to read which I was told in my dream
Without the tachyon theory I would lack any kind of scientific formulation, and would have to declare that
Much of this printed-out information arriving in dreams has had a teaching, shaping and directing quality; it tends to inform and guide me, and make me aware of what I should do . It literally educates me, and I'm sure each small creature, each bug and plant and animal and fish, has the same sense of it . I've watched my cat, now, as he sits out on the sundeck at night; he is beyond doubt considering the sidereal world above him and not moving objects below—when he comes in the house an hour or two later he seems modified, as if he has been taught during that period and knows it . I think this happens to us all but I managed consciously to transduce above the threshold of awareness, which is unusual but not unique, and became aware of this constant natural and normal process which shapes all life from the future, as Koestler describes . It is often described as the Divine Plan, Continual Creation.
Thus I would express the purpose of the novel—my purpose, anyhow—to be a fictional statement containing a presentation of this directing presence which I arbitrarily chose the name Ubik for . That Ubik (or more accurately the future total Gestalt of purpose and Meaning) may well have written the book through me is possible, but only in the sense that all creatures from grasshoppers on up, in particular small creatures such as grasshoppers, are written through, by what we call instinct, rather than writing
I don't feel I was picked
P.P.S . One aspect of regarding this as an information transmission and reception-transduction system (like a teletype) might at last throw some light on the otherwise puzzling phenomenon of glossolalia when seized by the Holy Spirit . In my reception of tachyon bombardment (assuming this is what it is, of course) I frequently either fail to transduce properly (error at the receiving end) or else there is a lapse of accurate transmission (as if the teletype operator has his fingers on the wrong line of keys, etc.). When that happens, instead of seeing, in my dreams, the perfectly articulated English prose passages which would be the result of all components functioning correctly, I get gibberish like this: meaningless names words
Considering the distance over which these packets of information travel, and their velocity, much contamination, signal-loss and other fa miliar invasion of the material contained must take place—cross-talk from other fields, so that when the tachyons at last impinge on us even if our transduction is superb (as in the case of mystics saints) there would be something quite less than a perfect meaningful construct . I suppose that out of these etoin shrdlu type of ramblings (or whatever you get on a linotype when your fingers go from left to right) the various Names of God
If you recall the weird word found on deserted Roanoke Island in 1591, which was CTOSYOAN, carved on a tree and everyone mysteriously gone, —well, look I did it just then; I had my fingers one key to the right on my keyboard: the word is CROATOAN; I was copying it from my text book and had my eyes away from my hands . Thus marvelously proving my point . But for centuries scholars have been trying to figure out what Croatoan
In my novel Galactic Pot-Healer there's a girl character named Mali Yojez . Not being able to think of another name, I hit keys at random, and used what I got . Years later a burned-out freak who had read the book looked at me with secret insinuating accusation and said, pointing to these letters-used-as-a-name ,
I pointed out that Mali Yojez was in no way his name.
I then pointed out that I had written and published the book years before I ever met him; at that his all-knowing paranoid glee increased.
I am not the true and actual source of my own fiction, and I've always wondered what the source was . John Denver, the current folk singer, says he doesn't compose his many songs ;
Well, my novels aren't out there in the air; they're in my unconscious—or are they? Maybe Denver is right; it's coming at us from a standpoint physically outside our brains, not down deep below the surface . In point of fact, S-F is often thought of as future history ,
In a dream a month ago I managed to see part of the title; it ended in the word
