And then she was gone, and as I'm sure I told you, when a month or so later I went by the pharmacy which had sent her out with the medication for me, they had no idea who she was, what her name was, or where she had gone, but she was gone, forever . They just smiled . Can you see how close this is to the universe
Then I fell asleep, and this is where The Real World comes in for sure, issue No . 3 . The 3 shots on [>] / [>] by Harry Callahan which I know are of Mexican border type towns . Henry, I have been in Mexico in dreams . Fullerton is next to a Mexican barrio and when I dreamed it back in 1971 before ever coming down here, I had all the details right . When I got down here in 1972 and was walking around I saw where I had dreamed about, and smelled the air . I said to my girlfriend as of then, Life unlived ,
Henry, what I realized when I woke up (or rather, returned to this, Middle Universe) is that first I saw, or was in, the highest flight into the air universe possible for me, given my abilities; the mode was soaring, weightlessness, fame, mobility, wealth, respect, being recognized, well-dressed, going everywhere into strange places which were big cities . The second was like when in real life for the month I was at the drug rehab residence place in Canada, very much like Synanon here in the U.S., after my suicide attempt in Vancouver, B.C . Poor and unknown, limited to one spot (in the dream
Both of those alternate universes were wonderful . Different from each other but equally wonderful . In different ways (in the poor Mexican one I enjoyed being close to the street—note street, not earth soil
While I have the typewriter here, let me quote you a small bit from
[ 4:220] The vitalistic principle or force Ubik is also sentient . It impinges on transmissions such as TV, phones . Has to do with ions . Gives full life to half-lifers ,
Entity in ionosphere due to growth of radio signal patterns? An AI bounce-back to us? Obtains information from our electrical impulses, and this is the noösphere
The entire pattern of our radio signals, and their information, have formed a living, or anyhow sentient entity which is why the idea of the noösphere came into being . Effect on us is not only informational but vitalistic and healing; best example is to
which is to say, move us along evolutionary lines toward completion of our now only half-finished entelechies (v. Teilhard's idea of Christ as paradigm of mankind; we are moving along the Way; continual evolution expressed in the Passion). This is brought to completion by the vitality and information imparted (like additional spin
Ubik, this entity, came here to render assistance to a stalled or bogged down biosphere/ecosphere (v. Dreams of stagnant ocean with few
Ionosphere . Which transacts radio wave exchanges as energy and in terms of distribution . Also the Auroras (Dawn). Acting as cathode ray tube to produce TV-screen-like effects . Receives magnetic storms and ions from Sun . Disturbances, solar flares...all these are characteristics of Ubik . (Dream of
P.S . I was up to 5 A.M. on this last night . I did something I never did before: I commanded the entity to show itself to me—the entity which has been guiding me internally since March . A sort of dream-like period passed then, of hypnagogic images of underwater cities, very nice, and then a stark single horrifying scene, inert but not a still: a man lay dead, on his face, in a living room between the coffee table and the couch . He wore a fawn skin! I rose from bed at once, convinced that I had Dionysos . The night or so before, I had dreamed about the dappled fawn; it is a basic image to me, that and the lamb, but I'd never connected the fawn with Dionysos, even though I'd been shown that Zagreus and Jesus are the same, and of course the lamb is a symbol of Jesus . For hours I studied everything about Dionysos I could find; nothing about his garb, except
Today I found in The Bacchae of Euripides this :
Dionysos is not only related to Zagreus; he is even more important in that he is the first mystery god, the first one we know of . He appeared abruptly in Attika in 600 B.C., coeval with Elijah . I wish to quote the Brit 3 on this, it is so important to us all: Sacrament). Then very shortly after, the Orphic appears, in which (it )
I think by bondage of the flesh we should read time, since the Brit 3 macro article on Salvation
There was none of the electrostatic ion-like vitality to this picture of the murdered man in fawn skin; I don't think it was a picture
Plot: from inside he learns the Albemuth whale's mouth sign and how to fashion the ideograph.46 A mysterious organization imperils him; he's taken over and subjected to psychological testing to acquire from him the contents of his mind . The psych tester of it draws the whale's mouth sign under duress, in a trance ,
Nobody else can discern it but him (and there must be others like him; this is main plot element; his conviction, his search). They call it
One of the most long-lasting and major plot ideas comes when the head of the mysterious organization commissions the building of an observatory like place to screen incoming signals from VALIS; work on The Project begins . It orbits the earth and will be visible to the world, once the parts are joined...when they are joined, they form the Albemuth sign, although it was impossible to discern this beforehand (he tried to be sure of that :
But the signals are interchanged throughout and among everything, even on the mundane plane . The Trash of the gutter con-spire
Nutty Soviet theory: a vast explosion in future, and we are traveling backward in time for limited period . An explosion so that what we see now as movement toward form is reverse of explosion, or implosion; but we see the universe as expanding...why? Because our perceptions are backward, too . Or maybe space isn't going backward, but must expand to counterbalance time which is running backward, etc . Anyhow, he (Dr. NK) announces, soon we will reach moment of explosion; he's calculated that, by running film backward . Soon all the pieces should be in place . Living in this reverse period, we've learned to adjust subtemporal events to fit . It's total sweep that's backward, not subtemporal
The explosion took place . Everything flew apart . We are in that flying apart (expanding universe) but see it backward, in that already part of the time flow has corrected itself and is carrying us in the correct direction; otherwise we would move away from the explosion forever . But we are moving, or anyhow there is the orthogonal flow within the flow going opposite to the direction we perceive; a mobius strip with time running both ways at once . This can easily be represented in terms of gravity, when a boomerang is thrown out.... at this moment the time-flow is far greater in one of the two directions, but he has picked up the weaker other, and it is the correct one, the direction we were going in before the Accident . This one is the rectifying flow (the Holy Spirit: restoring!!!). * This retroflow, Dr. NK says, must grow stronger, will grow stronger, until it balances the wrong way one (now stronger); overcomes and reverses our direction so we're heading back toward the original explosion which took place in the Authentic Future (the big bang!!!). We must move back toward it, finally . Anyhow, Dr. NK detects with his instruments a growing current of retrotime; this is why it exists; this was the normal flow-direction until the Accident . If Dr. Kozyrev is correct, and time is energy, then reverse time (which throws us forward away from the Big Bang) causes us to lose energy, which we call movement toward entropy; however, if we could gather—latch onto—the other time-flow, which also is energy, we (each of us) could regather the energy lost in the forward time flow toward entropy! We could get it back because it is gathering in precisely the sense that our regular time is losing heat or energy or charge . This gives us our parity, equilibrium equation for time which it now lacks and should have . (And shows why first it is absurd to say
And maybe this isn't even the whole universe; maybe we're part of a subsystem moving in this wrong direction . We do know when the Accident took place: about 6 billion years ago . But we could change directions before that; we don't go back to that; we're now moving away from it, and what you and I should look for is not going back 6 billion years and rectifying that mistake, but wrong-way thrown-back time slowing
Asked when this reversal to proper time direction might be anticipated, Dr. NK said, Wrong-direction time—
Dr. NK said, Yes.
The Albemuth message, though, corrects Dr. NK's theory; there was no explosion, just that Being time slipped into lineal time for this solar system or planet...hence myth of Garden of Eden days of every race on earth—it ended, we were cast out . The lineal time, which is the only time we recognize, is a slipped ontological coordinate of existence; each year should reinforce and totally renew, even add layers to each of us like patina; we should age in that sense, grow until each of us, qua entelechy, is perfected.
The U.S. Intelligence psychiatric profile on Dr. NK shows that
So I called in Tessa and said, Erasmus.
( I had the most incredible shower of chuckling all over me, in the form of math symbols and Greek letters . I'd guessed who it was: he had played the most—to him—fun game . Ir leg, the two Sanskrit words . Not the meaning [angry legion] but a pun . Always puns, a million pun clues . Ear leg . In the old days my brother-in-law and I made up this Swift :
Tom said irascibly . There it is . Now, ir leg is to ear leg as Irascibly is to that Swifty . And irascible
Then I sat for a couple hours and felt odd, not bad but odd, because all that stuff about Greece and Dionysus was crazy, based on the fact—Tessa and I looked him up—that Erasmus was one of the first Greek scholars . I imagined Why Erasmus?
( I could not explain it . About reincarnation I only said ,
Tessa had asked ,
I also remembered having been a rat, in a cage.
I told her.
Now, Claudia, obviously I used this event and the time in it conscientiously . During it I realized that in truth I saw the world in terms of pleasure denied me (sex and women) and over-reacted in terms of moral indignation, a moral tone to life (overthrow the tyranny
Claudia, I will get to the point . Finally I went to bed and slept, feeling love for my wife and my cats and child, feeling the beauty of the world, and that all this had been a fun trip, a relief away from the responsibility which is killing me...and then I had an insight, my own, based on all this . The Benzene ring
The two categories of a priori and empirical—they mislead us; they are Aristotle 's
Our mind soon subtracts qualities (e.g., time, space, geometric shape like square ,
Do you realize how many imagi we carry from the first week of our life on? How much of our empirical reality must be handled (like overnight—the whole world) this way? I assume that the Claudia K. Bush
Item . The actual external time, or growth-change axis, is that which Joe Chip saw . Even if you, as a person, the child is not you, the child that was; she was one within the actual imprinting form of a little girl of that age . This is why we don't see as things are; there is a change; there is motion and growth; it isn't a static universe (as the mystics imagine). Time is real, but it goes orthogonally; what I have said here is why we see it at right angles to the actual causal axis or real time
Item . We've got to categorize (i.e., mentally function) this way; vide A Martian Odyssey by Stanley Weinbaum (Ballantine) in which the Martian bird classifies each store as being in a different category, like, there are no birds, just bird one and bird two and bird three; it laughs when he speaks of birds ,
Item . It is really true that billions of you exist, and billions of me exist—outside . But for utility, there must be (1) identifying; (2) recognition; (3) creating of continuity and the concept of Identity, of perseverance (a key word in this) of Being . Being
Tessa points out :
While listening to the phono last night, I thought suddenly of the Wilhelm Muller poem Das Irrlight, which they meant to indicate, as a word, the flicker of the Aurora-like lights across the winter snow, which duped men and led them astray . Das Irrlight is one of my favorite German poems . Will-o-the-Wisp
I was just saying to Tessa last night :
But when the trip hit me last night, as I sat before my statue (ikon) of the very ancient wooden saint communing, and saw the vines clustered and growing and swirling, I thought ,
I saw all around me everywhere numbers.
The spirit who had been animating me was laughing and bubbling over, and vines swirled with dark-colored clusters, up the vestments of the saint . If Erasmus was indeed a person who saw fun in everything, then this was Erasmus; at the time I convinced the spirit to identify itself finally, and to my complete surprise . That it was truly Erasmus, the great scholar of the Bible, I didn't doubt at the time; I kept saying to Tessa ,
But today, recalling the intoxication (which it was), my mirth, the advice ,
