life which both Christ and Paul speak of as an affliction, [is] in contrast to the ear of corn in which all grains are together in corporate life; it was an ear of corn that was held up at Elysius, to demonstrate the mystery: I think the mystery is, the solitary grain (s) will be sown, then will grow again in corporate life, a corporate body of which Christ is the head . Paul in 1 Cor makes it perfectly clear that resurrection is in a spiri tual body as opposed to the prior physical body 107; as in Neoplatonism, we can expect to ascend on to a spiritual next ring universe in a spiritual, nonphysical, immortal body, leaving this one behind; it grows out of this one after this one is dead and buried, as with the grain of wheat/corn in the furrow: what comes next is different; it is a complete misunderstanding to expect—or even want—the originally physical solitary inferior body back ever again; it is metamorphosis which we are talking about; Paul in 1 Cor makes this perfectly clear . The incorruptible body is not a physical body, like this only eternal, but a spiritual body . Death is regarded as a doorway, with something better on the other side, exactly like the doorway I saw in 3- and 4-74, like a Greek pylon, with the moonlight and clear water beyond, which was everywhere, here and there, that I looked . A study of the other mystery religions (all based on the dying lunar god Osiris) shows this . Of all the things (visions) I saw, none is more significant than the pylon or arch-like doorway with the Greek water and nighttime island scene, so beautiful and peaceful on the other side . That was not a transformed view of this world (as with the iron ring and later spring time and Santa Sophia the building), that was a doorway to another world for sure . It wasn't to death; death was the doorway, the passage, with life beyond . It was a rather narrow entranceway . (When did I see that doorway? It must have either been after my shoulder surgery, or led into that period, because just after Pinky died I remember seeing him, all healthy and full-chested, squeezed through the doorway looking into this world at us .) (It just occurs to me that the doorway always had the proportions of the Golden Rectangle .) And at first I saw it as a geometric drawing of the Golden Rectangle complete with Greek-letter markings at corners, etc., at that point not yet projected into the world, found there as doorway and 3-D, but
not yet fused with the landscape; later, whenever I saw it, I actually picked out the Golden Rectangle in the real world, discerned it, but saw it as a doorway, and saw the lovely quiet peaceful world on the other side, waiting . Thinking about it now I realized that the discernment of this Golden Rectangle doorway within the real world here and there was on the identical order of the iron ring, God in the trash of the alley, everything else, especially equal to seeing Springtime in 2-75; it was a major event, and not to be ignored or forgotten; it was another transformation of the landscape, another vision of the next world or the New Creation . Offhand I'd say its message was, One can get from here (this world) to there, which is to say, to the Spiritual Universe . It's immediately at hand, if we could but see it . That which is seen through the doorway is not superimposed on our world but lies beyond it . For instance, it is nighttime there . (Although midday here .) I'm sure it 's
I kept dreaming of us as animals in a stagnant pond, interpreting this as our planet . But suppose it's not our planet, but our entire space-time universe, viewed from the next (Neoplatonist type) one? The helium-filled balloons, then, which rise—those are our souls . This is also the next stage in our evolution . But the pond has become so stagnant, now; few balloons
We're not so much dead or half-dead but half-alive—exactly as it's called in Ubik, but working the other way: the missing part has never been alive; it lies ahead, not behind us . We weren't deprived of it . We didn't have it once . We are yet to have it, are working toward it, being drawn, called (as by the élan vital of evolution, of life) toward (upward toward) it . A newt after all is alive ,
[ 5:311] I had the most extraordinary dream in which the dual nature of Christ was revealed . It took the form of a Medieval diptych, in which, on the right, the inner nature of Christ was shown in a picture, nebulous, but resembling Michelangelo's painting of the Delphic sibyl . Under that right- hand picture was written the word SHE and then the word SECRET . The left-hand picture was shown clearly: it was the puppet Pinocchio . As a string puppet, which is to say, worked (animated) from above . The picture of the puppet was one of a mere model of a human, very wooden, very without intrinsic life; it even had heavy shoes to weight it down, to give it the semblance of substance . In the very center of the frame, below the two pictures and equidistant from both, appeared the three unbroken lines of the trigram Ch'ien , 108 that of creative masculinity; this lay outside the diptych, thereby showing an outward presentation, to the world (outside), of pure unadulterated absolute masculinity . Bearing in mind that the female (and I think superior) part—called she—was identified also as secret, I understand from this dream that the female component's presence in the dual nature is a secret, probably is to be kept secret; also, it does not reveal itself in Christ's actions or manner, which guards the secret of course . That the masculine nature is worked by an inner feminine one is never stated anywhere, or it would cease to be a secret . I can conclude that it is Haggia Sophia that is represented here . I get a lot from this diptych representation; one thing I get is the impression that although gently given, the word secret
Anyhow, in the dream (p. 1) there was cautionary material, I think, because nothing new was given except the word secret
You know, the puppet Pinocchio could also have been a ventriloquist's dummy . What a strong image! With the animating entity on the right side, i.e., as pictured there à la fresco . The puppet had no life of its own; on its own it was inert and silent . Christ, on the cross, said ,
I dreamed last night of a MS page of mine in which I had 3 consecutive paragraphs beginning with the word she, an obvious reference to the she secret Christ dream . In this more recent dream I found space on the page to insert a paragraph which did not begin with she (I felt it was wrong always to start with she), and I added erotic material, about nipples, etc . Now, thinking about this, I remember my first vision, preceding all the others, which was of Aphrodite, and had to do with her right nipple; I wonder if there was an elliptical allusion to Aphrodite (cf . Empedocles) in this recent dream . The dream, engendered from my own mind purely, is still valuable, as it recalls to me what I had forgotten, namely, the vision of the Cyrenaican Aphrodite beyond the golden rectangle door . Does this dream suggest (good lord!) that she is related to, or is, none other than the goddess of love known to the Greeks? Empedocles felt that Aphrodite was the steersman of all krasoi.110 This is all very anxiety-producing to me . I add, if so, indeed it would be marked secret, but I appeal to the philosophy of Empedocles to indicate a lofty as well as erotic element to this; he held her to be the ultimate entity drawing things and people together ,
which is how I ended my speech, meaning Christ . As the EB calls her ,
[ 5:244] Mark 4:11 says that the parables were intended to confuse and not inform everyone except the disciples, the latter understanding the esoteric meaning, the outsiders getting only the exoteric meaning which would fail to save them; this was especially true regarding parables about the approaching Kingdom of God . I keep forgetting this . How much of the real inner meaning has come down to us? The written gospels record probably mostly the exoteric parable meanings, not the inner core . Whether we like it or not, it is there in Mark (if not elsewhere), and this favors the view of an elect within the body of mankind . At least so far as Jesus went . Maybe now there is a Third Covenant which will include all creation or anyhow all men . I am thinking in particular of the grain of wheat sown into the ground to rise again, a mystery theme common to Greek mystery religions; in fact evidently the basic one . What it really means—to know this—enables the hearer to achieve what is achieved: eternal life . The how is contained, as well as the what . I think that in 3-74, at the height of despair and fear and grieving I stumbled into the Kingdom, stumbled around for a while and then stumbled back out, none the wiser as to how I got there, barely aware of where I had been, and no idea as to how I stumbled out, and seeking always to find my way back ever since . Shucks . Drat . If it wasn't the Kingdom I don't know what it could be, with its bells and the lady singing and the void, with the trash in the gutter glowing, and the golden rectangle doorway with the sea and figure beyond, and the moonlight . There were people living there, especially the lady . It was all alive . It had personality . It explained everything to me . Now I don't see or understand anything . At that time I could even remember back to my origins . My real origins: the stars . What am I doing here? I forget, but I knew once . Amnesia has returned; the veil has fallen, back where it was . The divine faculties are occluded as before . Obviously I didn't accomplish it; I was given it, since I don't know how to find it again.
Heraclitus also says the world (universe) is uncreated, but kept together by the Logos, which I guess is immanent/transcendent . Men do not listen to the Logos nor see it, but are asleep . Soren K. says that the essence of Christianity is an
which makes me a Christian I guess, especially today.111 The pull of matter is very great . I escaped for only a little while and then fell back further than ever . As Elton John says ,
Those closest to Christ thought he was insane.
112 So his mother and friends came to get him, but he rebuffed them . Shades of Dionysus; also, that the apostles appeared drunk to bystanders when the Holy Spirit came to them at Pentecost . Thinking about this I feel rushing back to me many many experiences around 3-74 and during the year after: the name Jesus in the Bible opening up to form Zeus-Zagreus, the dots on the alb of the saint becoming grape vines; the vine quality of the washing ladies' plaque; the dithyramb being danced; the article Dionysus in America
I've seen her, heard her, in many guises, and finally the name
Gnostic revelation has broken through into my head in the modern world . I think anyone versed in Gnosticism who read my notes would say ,
I am not happy about this, but it is so, based on 3-74 . Simon Magus115 lives . Also, it is a thoroughly Greek syncretistic system . I must go where truth (as I've experienced it) takes me; my experience is of St. Sophia . Well, this is a modified Gnosticism, with Sophia sanctified as Wisdom of Proverbs and the book Wisdom ,
From a Jungian viewpoint, that which characterized my birth of the whole self, or rebirth (of the soul), was an experience with spiritual realities and values . It is these values, obtained from this experience, which must serve me in the second half of my life, and they do seem to be permanent and doing just that . If anything they grow stronger as time passes . I then am that wise king first shown to me as he breached through into this world in '70 . I must accept my whole identity; it is not an invasion of the ego by unconscious contents nor an inflation of the ego, although there was possession by an archetype briefly in 3-74 when the collective unconscious merged with my consciousness . Seizure by the Wise Old Man, whereupon he dealt with the problems at hand (e.g., the Xerox letter, the income tax, etc.). It shows what is potential in a person . Potentially avail able at the midpoint life-crisis (the razor's edge Augenblick). This puts it well: the resources and values of the first part of my life showed themselves bankrupt at that mid-point crisis, and so perished, but then were replaced by a structure adequate . The ego died that the self might live, and the self ably proved its worth within the first days . It is probably psychologically good that the archetypal possession was short-lived, that assimilated contents have come under control of consciousness or the ego or whatever . (They are not experienced as alien or the not-I or manipulatory .) A mantic life like that could not be rationally lived for long; it was a form of intoxification . Intoxication . Also divine: divine madness, a theolepsy, such as the sibyl experiences in the Aeneid . The collapse and death of my ego in early March of 74 allowed contents of the collective unconscious to usurp control, but they proved rational in the long run, and were already a new but genuine self-system which had evidently been forming in the unconscious . The authentic self which Jung talks about was already there, waiting its chance . Or rather for its time to come . It was anticipatory . The little girl with blonde pigtails is the child self, also a new anima; now she has grown up—as witness my conversation with
She is now 28 years old: a young adult . White hair shows she is free of the shadow entirely . She is pure, and related to divinity . I certainly am on good terms with her, inasmuch as she is informing and correcting me, speaking words of wisdom (Mother Mary comes to me). I listen to her; I crave to hear anything she can or will say . She is wiser than I. I see her as mediatrix standing between this world (me) and the next, which is the collective unconscious (also the pleroma, to give it an objective existence). She mediates for the archetypes, which is the ultimate job of the anima, herself an archetype: the first one . Behind her I have seen the Godhead, which is the ultimate archetype (the Wise Old Man once more). He instructs and corrects her, with authority and power; she instructs me with the Logos, the word, wisdom itself . She is Wisdom, Lady Wisdom, St. Sophia, probably the highest role or identity the anima could have (also she is Aphrodite and the sibyl). Then, in Jungian terms, it was my anima who first spoke to me, in the 3-eyed form I called the sibyl, and informed me, which is to say, the spokeswoman of my unconscious warned and informed me: anima as angel, saying ,
She spoke of, and showed me, a group of conspirators in business suits and ties who were murderers; but they had been seen and would be dealt with . What a message that was, and how historically correct in all regards—past present and future . The magnitude of my situation, in terms of its danger, was too much for me; and so I fell into the hands of archetypes of my unconscious who could fathom and understand and deal with the situation—they were equal to it, as great in themselves as it was in itself: they had the time-span, the historic sense; they exist over thousands of years, like it, vast and intense and strong . Only archetypes could deal with such an archetypal situation: a total tyranny, like that of the Empire . How could I, the former ego, hang in there once it had assessed the actual reality-situation? I can remember how it was when the Estonian letter and then the Xerox letter came; it was just too much, on top of everything else . But the transition to the new self had already begun (as witness the phosphene activity). The old ego died before the letters arrived, died from despair and fear and hopelessness and helplessness . It was burning a votive candle in memoriam of itself . This is not to say that God didn't help; this is not to subjective-ize everything . God entered via the archetypes of the collective unconscious . They presented information-rich visions; they swept the world to obtain accurate knowledge of what the situation consisted of . Like AMORC 116 says, we are light bulbs in strings, powered from an external common generator, the Cosmic Mind . Probably the ego can be extinguished by death but not the soul or greater self . That which relates to this world dies; that which relates to the next and previous does not . It's all in Wordsworth's Ode . To remember immortality is to experience it, and to anticipate it lying ahead as it lay behind: coming from that same place as one is going, as if life is a parabola . If I were to define and depict on my own the archetype which took possession of me in 3-74 I would name him The Steersman, because he steered me through the reefs and rocks to clear water (as seen through the golden rectangle gate), to safety; and then he sank back to leave me in charge again . As he first announced during my high school physics test when initially he spoke to me :
If this Orphic egg is there, then the steersman, the archetype, divinity, who was present and temporarily occupying and directing, was its father or source . I merely received it, gave it a place within which it could be . I am not its father; I am its recipient, which means host or mother . I shelter and hide it; no one knows it is here . I look the same; I act the same . Is this why the steersman took over my life, to be sure I'd be safe so that it, the Orphic egg/pearl, could be safe? Ah; is the Steersman the Holy Spirit? What happened in 3-74 was done in relationship to what is still future . (The birth from the Orphic egg .) Jung says that just prior to psychic integration and wholeness, the projections are withdrawn; the spinning woman
The dream in which on your Zenith TV set a circuit detects when Christ in his invisible form returns; it causes three lights to come on . You then remove the spindle and base and take from it a dark green cellophane strip and replace it in the TV set, where presumably the 3 lights come on even more or anyhow some further development occurs, in line with the event . I ask myself, Why 3 lights? And it occurs to me that 3 lights equal three eyes, the coming on of the 3rd eye, which means the restoration of the original faculty, taken away at the Fall, of sight . Unless the 3 lights simply refers to the trinity and nothing more, this is most likely what it signifies; also, the removal of the strip of very dark green cellophane suggests the removal, at the right time, of an occluding membrane which filters out most of the light, allowing only a token amount to filter through . Just enough, in fact, to give a register (on the 3 lights) at all . The veil must be torn aside for the light, which has returned, to shine . In the dream I was extremely surprised to find I had such a circuit in my TV set; I called the multitude that I might show them, but none was interested . At last I buttonholed my old friend Pat Flannery, because he was a Catholic, but even he wasn't interested . It seems as if the dream is saying, without our knowing it, we will see a sign; 3 eyes will come on (inside us) at his return, and then we must respond and cast off the veil of ignorance or delusion, whatever—anyhow remove something inside us (i.e., down in the assembly and circuits). It is a barrier to the passage of the light, and is made to be torn off, removed, at the proper time . We don't just sit passive when the signal comes . The dream says, We will know when he returns . If it is said ,
And the lights are in my TV set . A circuit few people know about . Nor are they interested . It is my set, my discovery, my excitement . Analysis :
It has been some time since I developed any conflicting theories about my experience; now it's an elaboration and a filling in, lapidary-wise, of detail . I have created a consistent explanation based on the experience and on research . I doubt if it ever will undergo any substantial modifications . It was an epiphany; that much is certain: an epiphany rather than a theophany . Throughout, the key concepts are Greek, the key terms are Greek; it is Greek Christianity evolving out of Plato . Any other language—other than Greek—would be out of place and make no sense; the Greek words I heard are the cornerstone, the key to the cypher, and even perhaps a gracious act toward me to assist me in unlocking the entire picture . There is only one important issue that I'm not sure of: has Holy Wisdom who visited me been present during the past 2,000 years, or was there an ellipsis, and now she/he/it has returned to man to assist him? The memory of the spirit contained nothing between the first century A.D. and World War One; that is a clue that an ellipsis did indeed occur . Also, there are no reports that I can find, down through the ages, of a Neoplatonistic total print-out such as I got, the grand sum of Neoplatonistic mystery gnosis . Surely someone would have reported it before now . I have received the greatest gift which the universe can bestow . Today I was thinking that as a child I always wanted desperately—I yearned—to hear the still small voice which Elijah heard, and now I have heard it . Also I realized that if at the end of my search for God I learned that there is no God, then whatever I accomplished, experienced or acquired would mean nothing; conversely, this makes up for anything and everything, and creates meaning of an ultimate order in my life . The 3-74 experience was vaster than empires; the exegesis which uncovered the significance of the experience is vaster yet—infinite in sum . *
I could ask, and answer, This.
[ 23:3] I remember in sleep the thought ,
[ 23:18] If the Savior is again here, I might see him perhaps . But it is said ,
[ 23:50] I think now of the dream I had of the great luminous moth, descending to earth so beautifully . Perhaps this was the one vast soul which came down, rather than many separate souls: one entity which was segmented at impact, perhaps dispersing to take up eventual residence within many human minds . Dispersing this way it lost contact with its own original identity and at that point lapsed into forgetfulness (amnesia). From that moment on it has traveled, in luminous beauty but without recognizing itself inwardly or outwardly, forward in time as a collective divided invisible presence . It moves majestically but no longer conscious of itself or its origins, purpose here or goal; its primary goal is to remember, to again be self-aware with all the ramifications implied (whence from, whither going). It is a visitor here, and, in remembering, has begun the process by which it can return . How can it return if it has forgotten that it ever existed anywhere but here? It keeps reincarnating in linear time, drawn back by its desire to perpetuate itself here . It imagines itself to be human, a human (many a
—I guess this is all fanciful, it leaves out the elements of testing, judgment and reprieve (permission to go home). Is it possible that each part of the great soul must earn its reprieve, before enlightenment (memory restored) occurs? It does not just happen to remember; anamnesis is granted it as a reward, perhaps after centuries of trial . Did it sin originally and so fall? Was it cast out of the pleroma? Was it one Lucifer, star of many? And must it work its way back up gradually and arduously? Was it punished? Only by transforming itself could it (its pieces) receive its original state back . This was the fall, the fall, trials here and eventual return . I am conscious of earning anamnesis, although I'm not sure when and how, perhaps what the pieces of the moth (soul) must lose—and demonstrate loss of—is the rebellious self-fulfillment in the sense of self-striving against the Krasis1 as a totality; it was one part thereof, originally, and tried to become a Krasis in itself, which is to say, no longer part of the total universe-organism! But pitted against it, a separate universe . In my final vision I perceived the universe as one interacting entity, one creature
[ 23:111] It's amazing how much James-James' chaotic world resembles Empedocles' world of strife, and the Corpus Christi resembles the krasis formed by love—which brings me back to Aphrodite . And the krasis possessing one more dimension than James-James' horizontal
Is it even possible that strife (plane) is love (sphere) seen in one less dimension—i.e., imperfectly perceived? Only the sectioning perceived? The spherical krasis viewed, in a limited sense, as section, and thus all changed? Add the missing dimension and you go from the seeming world to the symmetrical real . This added dimension has something to do with time—the horizontal quality of strife may be linear time . The sphere is the plane perfected and hence outside (above) time . There is a mystery here: intersection at two points: Rome c. 70 A.D. and Fullerton c. 1974 A.D.
[ 23:112] There is some vast relationship between my 3-74 experience and Ubik the novel, could I but find it . E.g., when I saw Rome c. A.D. 70 I was at an incredibly low ebb of vitality (heat loss death). But, as in Ubik (i.e., Archer's Drugstore) both time periods and the objects therein existed simultaneously . In fact, neither could be said to be more real than the other—a sort of oscillation (and yet in Ubik neither was real; both were illusory). Is this to say that if you can peel the layers of 1974 back (aside) and find A.D. 70, then the reality you are dealing with is no reality (but is illusion)? A mockup, a stage set? Which has been reused and reused—painted over again and again? Of course, nothing is sui generis new; every object in the present is literally made from old atoms formerly used in other, more ancient sets.
[ 23:120] Two S-F dreams ill-remembered . (1) some people have come here from another planet which had much greater gravity, so that being here was being able to fly—literally
( 2) if you do something
[ 23:127] The two dreams together show (1) coming here from a place worse than this—escaping from it to here and then (2) escaping from here . In (1), here stands in relation to the heavier world
We are not products of this world but voyagers here—one thinks of Gnosticism at once . We have come here from another place and will eventually find the unexpected orthogonal axis and ascend to the next . Ah! Eventually we will chafe against the bonds—restrictions, determinism, limitations—of this world too, and seek release, as we did before with the heavier
[ 23:133] I just now remembered details of my original
( 2) the floating up step is not merely a next stage in moving from place to place, but the recovery of awareness of identity as one of the bees
Indicative of this is the dream of coming from the heavy world in the air . Obviously it's a state in this life, not death; this is the original now-lost state we came here in—as in Wordsworth's Ode . Joy may refer obliquely to Ode, i.e. ,
) We are in that state right after birth, are put in cages (social conditioning, learning, strictures) and finally leap up to ceiling (trapdoor): again up high, but not weightless; rather by effort (leaping) we are once again in that original unspoiled state : 3-74 equals a return to the original state right after birth—and then lost . In that state we are free of gravity which means free of determinism which means free of James-James, not to mention any and all foes such as the authorities; they did not expect us to (be able to) do what we did; invisible equals off this map room GHQ board, not sus ceptible to being tracked (watched) as predictable object glued to board by gravity . 3-74 is final state or goal of evolution: return to rightful state lost at birth: the heavy world (weight of conditioning, the fall
Perhaps after death, after achieving this in this life, instead of another birth here, the goal of enlightenment achieved, we can return to God—permanently, well envisioned as all of us in unison buzzing joyfully like bees (bits of him) as he (I mean it), the great universe-creature, breathes in and out, showing it (as I saw, and I wrote in Latin) is a living vast organism . I understand now why, when I see it (noetically) it reminds me of bees: a colony of bees is a collective intelligence, par excellence . Awareness of the living universe creature and one's identity in it as one bee is not merely higher awareness: it is an absolute state of perception of actual conditions of being . All that varies is the duration or the state of total correct perception and self-awareness, which evidently can come at any time in any plane-level, Rome, here, or the next . We did not just (nearly) come from it and will eventually return: in reality we are there now, always have been, the journey is not physical but involves degrees of losing and gaining, motion toward (anamnesis) or away from (amnesia), this absolute perception . It is in fact waking up, which equals: becoming conscious . But, e.g. , 3-74, it is not correct to say ,
: what is correct is: a bit of Brahman passed from sleep to self-awareness: wakefulness . It is correct to say ,
but it is more correct to say ,
since there is no condition or place where Brahman is not: vide
Perhaps at the Christian end days this whole cluster wakes up collectively . Eschatology defines this as a temporary state of mankind, not so to speak our real state . Flying and buzzing (i.e., singing): a unity of unconsciousness (mode one): the wings and flying (
etc .) and consciousness :
[ 24:1] EB :
Nowhere, except in Brahmanism, do I find the description of the immanent all pervading divine stuff which I saw as the living force of causality, shining in the faces of the animals, in the trash of the gutter, in the stars—always in and behind, and subjectively experienced internally inside myself as an instructing tutelary voice and that which was aware and seeing the divine without which lay behind the phenomenological world; viz :
[ 24:15] The basic theme in Stigmata, Ubik and Maze—the pleasant illusory skin stretched over a dreadful reality—stems from my early reaction to the two stories I read, one of the dying fly walking around in front of him; the other, the hidden underground city screaming . The cardinal fixed idea of all my writing has been this plus the theme: I am not (or he is not) what I think (I am) he is—in particular my (his) true identity is obscured by fake memories . (1) Reality is not as it appears to be and (2) I am not who and what I think I am . To put them together is to get: both inner and outer reality are not as they appear . The moment I read the two above mentioned stories I intuitively felt ,
[ 24:25] It was (for me) as if the Garden (or park—I recall the words
