Jack may act upon Jill in many ways . He may make her feel guilty for keeping on
He may invalidate her experience . This can be done more or less radically . He can indicate merely that it is unimportant or trivial, whereas it is important and significant to her . Going further, he can shift the modality of her experience from memory to imagination :
Further still, he can invalidate the content :
This is not unusual . People are doing such things to each other all the time . In order for such transpersonal invalidation to work, however, it is advisable to overlay it with a thick patina of mystification . For instance, by denying that this is what one is doing, and further invalidating any perception that it is being done by ascriptions such as
repeated Jeannine Dadier, not knowing what they were talking about . I don't—
Out of the corner of her eye she saw Cal outside in the street; he was walking bouncily and his hat was tipped forward; he was going to have some silly thing or other to say about being a reporter, little blond hatchet face and serious blue eyes ;
Jeannine slipped into the stacks, hiding behind Mrs. Allison's P.M.-Post: Woman Appears from Nowhere on Broadway, Policeman Vanishes . She daydreamed about buying fruit at the free market, though her hands always sweat so when she bought things outside the government store and she couldn't bargain . She would get cat food and feed Mr. Frosty the first thing she got to her room; he ate out of an old china saucer . Jeannine imagined Mr. Frosty rubbing against her legs, his tail waving . Mr. Frosty was marked black-and-white all over . With her eyes closed, Jeannine saw him jump up on the mantelpiece and walk among her things: her sea shells and miniatures . No, said Jeannine hastily . Baby? Later, said Jeannine desperately . Cal leaned over her and whispered into her ear; it made her want to cry . He rocked back and forth on his heels . Then he said, Baby?
said Jeannine hopelessly, all right.
said the tractor-driver, knocking on a solid piece set into the wall.
The man in blue—if he had seen them—would have found them very odd: smooth-faced, smooth-skinned, too small and too plump, their coveralls heavy in the seat . They wore coveralls because you couldn't always fix things with the mechanical hands; sometimes you had to use your own . One was old and had white hair; one was very young; one wore the long hair sometimes affected by the youth of Whileaway ,
said the tractor-driver at last ,
I saw Jeannine shortly afterward, in a cocktail lounge where I had gone to watch Janet Evason on television (I don't have a set). Jeannine looked very much out of place; I sat next to her and she confided in me :
I can't imagine how she got there, except by accident . She looked as if she were dressed up for a costume film, sitting in the shadow with her snood and her wedgies, a long-limbed, coltish girl in clothes a little too small for her . Fashion (it seems) is recovering very leisurely from the Great Depression . Not here and now, of course.
whispered Jeannine Dadier again, rather anxiously . She was fidgeting . She said, What?
she said big-eyed . Jet?
( The first thing said by the second man ever to visit Whileaway was ,
Janet Evason, appearing in the Pentagon, hands in her pockets, feet planted far apart, said ,
JE (slowly): I suppose people always miss what they are used to . Yes, they were missed . Even a whole set of words, like he, man
MC: I—Miss Evason—we—well, we know you form what you call marriages, Miss Evason, that you reckon the descent of your children through both partners and that you even have tribes
MC: Ah? (He wants to say ,
She was cut off instantly by a commercial poetically describing the joys of unsliced bread . They shrugged (out of camera range). It wouldn't even have gotten that far if Janet had not insisted on attaching a touch-me-not to the replay system . It was a live broadcast, four seconds' lag . I begin to like her more and more . She said ,
exclaimed the philosopher Dunyasha Bernadetteson (A.C. 344—426) who suffered all her life from the slip of a genetic surgeon's hand which had given her one mother's jaw and the other mother's teeth—orthodontia is hardly ever necessary on Whileaway . Her daughter's teeth, however, were perfect . Plague came to Whileaway in P.C . 17 (Preceding Catastrophe) and ended in A.C. 03, with half the population dead; it had started so slowly that no one knew about it until it was too late . It attacked males only . Earth had been completely re-formed during the Golden Age (P.C.300-ca . P.C.180) and natural conditions presented considerably less difficulty than they might have during a similar catastrophe a millennium or so earlier . At the time of The Despair (as it was popularly called), Whileaway had two continents, called simply North and South Continents, and a great many ideal bays or anchorages in the coastline . Severe climatic conditions did not prevail below 72 & deg; S and 68 & deg; N latitude . Conventional water traffic, at the time of the Catastrophe, was employed almost exclusively for freight, passenger traffic using the smaller and more flexibly routed hovercraft . Houses were self-contained, with portable power sources, fuel-alcohol motors or solar cells replacing the earlier centralized power . The later invention of practical matter-antimatter reactors (K. Ansky, A.C. 239) produced great optimism for a decade or so, but these devices proved to be too bulky for private use . Katharina Lucyson Ansky (A.C. 201-282) was also responsible for the principles that made genetic surgery possible . (The merging of ova had been practiced for the previous century and a half .) Animal life had become so scarce before the Golden Age that many species were re-invented by enthusiasts of the Ansky Period; in A.C. 280 there was an outbreak of coneys in Newland (an island off the neck of North Continent), a pandemic not without historical precedent . By A.C. 492, through the brilliant agitation of the great Betty Bettinason Murano (A.C. 453-A.C. 502) Terran colonies were re-established on Mars, Ganymede, and in the Asteroids, the Selenic League assisting according to the Treaty of Mare Tenebrum (A.C. 240). Asked what she expected to find in space, Betty Murano made the immortal quip, Nothing.
That is, a prudent ecologist makes things work as nearly perfectly as they can by themselves, but you also keep the kerosene lantern in the barn just in case, and usually a debate about keeping a horse ends up with the decision that it's too much trouble, so you let the horse go; but the Conservation Point at La Jolla keeps horses . We wouldn't recognize them . The induction helmet makes it possible for one workwoman to have not only the brute force but also the flexibility and control of thousands; it's turning Whileawayan industry upside down . Most people walk on Whileaway (of course, their feet are perfect). They make haste in odd ways sometimes . In the early days it was enough just to keep alive and keep the children coming . Now they say
If I had the money, if I could get my hair done He comes into the library; he's a college professor; no, he's a playboy.
Talks to Mrs. Allison, slyly flattering her.
She casts her eyes down, rich in feminine power . Had my nails done today . And these are good clothes, they have taste, my own individuality, my beauty.
Later on the roof garden, drinking champagne ,
Mr. Frosty, unsatisfied and jealous, puts his claw into her leg . All right!
I met Janet Evason on Broadway, standing to the side of the parade given in her honor (I was). She leaned out of the limousine and beckoned me in . Surrounded by Secret Service agents . That one ,
JE: Evason is not son daughter . Greetings, said Janet Evason.
( said Janet in her surprisingly loud, normal voice )
and she turned the headlights back on.
said Janet . The car? Stolen, she said . She peered out the side window for a moment, turning her head and taking her eyes off the road . Jeannine gasped indignantly . Only the driver can see really accurately in the rear-view mirror; but there was a car behind us . We turned off onto a dirt road—that is, she turned off—and into the woods with the headlights dark—and on to another road, after which there was a private house, all lights out, just as neat as you please.
said Janet affably, slipping out of the car ;
Why did they send me? Because they can spare me . Etsuko Belin strapped me in.
I said, and held out the cat's cradle . It's not only the universal symbol of peace, but a pretty good game, too . This was the simplest position, though . One of them laughed; another put its hands over its eyes; the one whose desk it was backed off; a fourth said, What?
a tall blonde woman in blue pajamas who appeared standing on Colonel Q————'s desk, as if from nowhere . She took out what appeared to be a weapon No answer to our questions . The Colonel has kept a small revolver in the top drawer of his desk since the summer riots . He produced it . She would not answer our questions . I believe at that point Miss X————-, the Colonel's secretary, walked into the room, quite unaware of what was going on . Luckily Y————-, Z————-, Q————-, R————, and myself kept our heads . She then said, Go away . Janet?
said Jeannine suddenly . (She put her hands over her ears and made a face . )
said Jeannine loftily . Ah!
said Jeannine languidly ;
Don't stare at me . She slouched and narrowed her eyes . She wanted to put one hand up affectedly to shade her forehead; she wanted to cry out, Time, and Miss Evason laughed and Miss Dadier laughed . Miss Dadier laughed beautifully, gloriously, throwing her head back; everyone admired the curve of Miss Dadier's throat . Eyes turned . A beautiful body and personality to burn.
said Miss Dadier magnificently, her fur coat swirling; Good, said Janet Evason.
I made her up . I did everything but find a typical family for her; if you will remember, she found them herself . But I taught her how to use a bath-tub and I corrected her English (calm, slow, a hint of whisper in the s, guardedly ironic). I took her out of her workingwoman's suit and murmured (as I soaped her hair) fragments of sentences that I could somehow never finish :
Janet you must Janet, we don't but one always
She held the baby like an expert, cooing and trundling, bouncing him up and down so that he stopped screaming and stared at her chin the way babies do . She uncovered him . Tsk . My goodness.
She scrubbed my back and asked me to scrub hers; she took the lipstick I gave her and made pictures on the yellow damask walls . (
I got her girlie magazines and she said she couldn't make head or tail of them; I said, Joanna, You fake! My child, she said gently ,
( You'll hear a lot of those two sentences in life, if you listen for them . I see Janet Evason finally dressing herself, a study in purest awe as she holds up to the light, one after the other, semi-transparent garments of nylon and lace, fairy webs, rose-colored elastic puttees—"Oh, my . ''
she says unself-consciously, shifting gears in a moment.
In we walked, Janet and I, the right and left hands of a bomb . Actually you might have said everyone was enjoying themselves . I introduced her to everyone . My Swedish cousin . (Where is Domicissa, who never opens her mouth in public? And Dulcississa, whose standard line ,
