into something else: the mirror-opposite, universe-seen-backward
The McKennas regard our universe as a hologram, created by the interaction of two hyperuniverses, just as an ordinary hologram is created by the interaction of two lasers . One consequence of this model is that, if our universe is a hologram, every part contains the information of the whole, as in normal holography . Leary's work suggests that every atom contains the brain of the whole universe."... This is also the basic axiom of magic...stated in the tale of Hermes in the famous sentence ,
But the McKenna theory goes far beyond this . There are 64 timescales in the hologram of our universe, they say, and each one is related to one of the 64 (8x8) hexagrams of the I Ching . What we call mind consciousness is a standing wave form of these 64 time systems . As the two hyperuniverses making up the hologram of our known universe interact in time, mind
Considerations: this acceleration of acceleration is what took place in my brain (and hence world) in the first stages of 3-74, either time (and the events in it speeding up faster and faster) or the events themselves . But in some sort of continuum that involved my perception of and relation to the empirical world, so that every object, process and event was an epiphenomenon, and only the constants (Platonic forms) were perceptible . Thus I lived out this process the McKennas described, somehow cut loose from objective time . At the same time the hologram universe became pellucid and disclosed one of the two hyperuniverses: the black iron prison of Acts (Rome A.D. 70). In 2-75 I completely lost that hyperuniverse, and entered the other one, the palm tree garden world . Neither the black iron prison world nor the palm tree garden world is our universe; ours is the [hologram] composite of the two: they are the two laser sources.
[ 30:20] Then the collision between hyperuniverses
We are concerned with those spurious elements as they manifest themselves interwoven with the real in our universe . The only way they can be expunged is by expunging the BIP II hyperuniverse or track: one must aim at the source . It is as if one of the two lasers is projecting noise signal . So hyperuniverse BIP II, to be defeated, must be invaded by a salient Form I (which is Jesus Christ; v. John, chapter 1). In projected form, the hologrammatic analog also enters our universe . Christ stealthily enters BIP II and is not found out until he has been humiliated and murdered, upon which like a gas (plasma) he begins invisibly to expand and fill up the whole of BIP II—which in terms of time stands c. A.D. 70 . At that point, Christ, returned as the second advocate, blocks all change-process or the pseudo-life (growth, change) of II . Both I and II stand at that eternal time point, while our admixture wobbles on through an accelerating linear time, faster and faster toward the end, at which time Christ will manifest himself once more as King and annihilate it forever . What the first advent accomplished was the complete acquisition of our universe by II, the assimilation to II completely . In a sense, the projections of II into our universe are ossified, mechanical, dead and slaying . (Chaos or ananke or even the irrational .) Hence in Ubik the form reversion, as II gains in the absence of I (Ubik). II, because it is mortified, represents devolved forms: the past: that is its hallmark (hence stale or dead cigarettes: entropy, but a time-regressive kind). Christ, upon his passion and resurrection, literally slew II . But the deceitful corpse remains, aping life . Into our admixture world, Zebra pours renewed life (e.g., as with me). God lives on, and the kingdom (I), but it drags the corpse of II which still simulates reality and life . One of the hyperuniverses has died, as if they once were androgyny-twins, one good, one evil; the evil burst forth prematurely from the egg (whatever that might be), expanded its soma into II—which predates I which was born full term
Our universe as admixture of 2 dipolar worlds—that is a view I tried unsuccessfully to extract from Augustine's City of God which separate at the end-times . I held that view, but Augustine didn't . Like Land's radical new color theory46 our world is a two source
( D) 4th x
Since (not if) Christ as self is both inner micro and outer macro, surrender to him as self produces identity with all other life as one continuum . This is the opposite condition when the normal ego exists; it exists versus the world and hence all other life . The world at all other life is viewed as source of gratification for the ego . Also, it is to be feared as a source of deprivation of what the self wants for itself . The concept here is center . Ego is spurious center (omphalos). Jesus said ,
Greater love hath no man than that he give up his life for his friend (s).
I have seen the Savior wrapped in the crazed, crapping, dirty, wild body of an animal, then transformed and eternally my friend . Christ in deliberate disguise, and the passion fulfilled in victory: resurrection . Only when I felt his hand on my shoulder and dreamed the Donlevy
[ 14:2] But hyperuniverse II may be dead—or rather its psyche is dead; the soma is dead and merely biological subcortical
[ 14:8] Perhaps the BIP is fixated at c. 70 A.D. because in the First Advent VALIS dealt it a death blow so that it never progressed past that point in linear time, actually, and since then merely spins out a spurious balloon of ersatz time during which it undergoes no growth . Then the 1st Advent was indeed a success, hence Christ said ,
Fear not, for I have conquered the world.
[ 14:12] I once defined reality for Jamis
This is not pantheism . This is not dualism, although there is a good vs. bad and a dialectic interaction . It is simply a 2-signal source hologram, and one of the sources has died and seeks
[ 14:15] My 2 source cosmogony/cosmology which I just sort of dashed off wasn't based on logic or observation (in the usual sense, as with philosophical systems) but stemmed from revelation by way of theophany and theolepsy.49 In which case it may never be possible to define my 3-74 to 2-75 experience in any traditional terms, even Christian . I have but one name given me: Hagia Sophia . It seems to be female . In my 2 source
I have a secret conviction that Zebra is Christ, invisibly returned, and not what we've been told about him (her—Hagia Sophia). Aphrodite has returned, regaining her rightful power (of love) over the male war gods . It is the Prov erbs
Stage 8: One realizes that he himself is God, that he descended voluntarily to the lowest level of the yin world . That he is home, restored to himself once more, and in a sense never left but only forgot.
Stage 9: And the purpose of the journey?
[ 14:66] Everything is turned around; yin or YHWH bellows and curses and rants; whereas the true Abba, the authentic yang part, is gentle—and its voice is mild and small and reasonable; it does not threaten or rant . This voice seems almost feminine . That which is truly all-powerful (cf . Zen) has no need to threaten or intimidate . This is a hall of mirrors —the true creator is mild and gentle and loving; the usurper bellows (the arrogant one who does not know there is a father above him/her). Here, again, we are presented with a puzzle and a lesson . Q :
The coercive or the reasonable-persuasive?
Anyone with my attitude might just stumble onto by sheer chance and luck—in his actual life, which is to say the life of his mind—the authentic camouflaged God, the deus absconditus, by trying odd combinations of things and places, like a high speed (sic) computer processing everything, he might outdazzle even a wary God, might catch him by surprise by poking somewhere unexpectedly . If it is true that the real answers (and authentic absolute vs. the merely seeming) are where we would least expect them . This try it all technique might—might—one day succeed by believing what it would never occur to anyone else to believe, really believe—might take at face value as true the most worn out, most worked over and long ago discarded obvious
[ 14:84] There is, then, in this system, a kind of Tao of Taoism
My system states ,
[ 15:8] The true deity has reasserted itself in the overthrowing of the American government . Perhaps one of the reasons for its victory is that the evil powers did not understand what they were up against, sincerely believing that they had destroyed—not just banished—the light especially since the light re-entered by trash routes . They did not recognize it even when confronted by it . That was its intention . Since the evil one posed as the solemn, the dignified, the noble, the true God took on all the despised and rejected and looked-down-on forms . (Cf . the messages in Ubik and the last one, where its cheap and vulgar mask is thrown off to disclose its true nature .) Wind, blowing through the dry weeds...tracing a path: the abyss, the sacred void . Silent and invisible, like electricity.
But to reach one of us, the actual information (Logos) has to breach a veritable wall of spurious flack . It must break the hold which the false information as world has on us . We are enslaved to and by the false information (world, counterfeit continuum), and it is a blind deterministic prison of cause and effect, which uses us up, wears us out for its purposes and then throws us away . * To gain the salvific help of Zebra we must first back against the bogus world and partially break its hold—we must bipolarize against it knowing it can and will defeat us . That means that for all intents and purposes, the bogus data (world) form a moral and intellectual puzzle, which each of us must to a certain extent solve (before we can be saved). Here is where pistis comes in, but not a blind pistis except in this sense: we must deny the reality (the intellectual balking) presented to our senses, or balk on moral grounds (indict the world as evil) (and so align ourselves with God—the ham sandwich
For it, information is energy: its very psychic life energy—until it implants the special signal fossil
[ 15:27] Supratemporally speaking, there is one adversary thing and one attack on it, threaded through linear time like a nail driven through an onion . By spreading itself exploded
So Zebra is inserted at crucial times and then acts as a receiver-transducer of what I guess could be called the Omega Omega mind.
[ 15:28] John 1:1: Living information (the Logos) sent back in time at or before creation, coded to impose certain imprintings on matter, to imprint DNA
If no one put the subcarrier information there, then it put itself there, which means it's alive . If this info is an entity in itself which can modulate itself, then to know this information is to be possessed by it; you are auto matically in a symbiotic state with it . This is a new category of existence . It's like the ring in The Hobbit—it goes where it wants to go: it can direct its own future . As if we're radio waves: it modulates us; we're the carrier signal . It's as if RF waves become aware that info messages are using
[ 15:29] Can anti-info have a life of its own? The problem of spurious info . The lie—look at the level it's raised to . It's pure death—but where does it originate? Does it have its own radio station
Info is not a description of reality: it is a fiat :
Our info is partial (occluded) because it is being jammed . Anti-information: the lie (die messages). Eventually you sicken and die of this.
Bob Wilson51 says ,
[ 15:32] So I don't need to forever wonder why the Acts material is in Tears or how it got there . It is itself—not by living information—it is living information—at least that one page of the dream and the command word Felix.
I saw the mercury-like drop of Zebra on the page, outlining and illuminating the word Felix.
So there is no occult or secret group of authentic Christians to whom the encoded message in Tears is aimed . The living info (Felix) replicates in all copies of the book and then in the heads of the readers—any readers: like the host at communion . The entire entity can retrieve itself from this one bit or cell
[ 15:34] Suppose the Book of Acts is regarded—not as a book made up of words—but a landscape . Let us say that it appears (enters, exists) in our spurious interpolation as a book—this is hard to express . It's a book (writing) in our world . But our world isn't real . So the Book of Acts is in actuality not really a book at all; our glimpse of reality is to see it as a book (tractate), one out of literally millions . So in our dream the real world impinges, but only in this fashion, shrunk down to a tractate . In 3-74 I entered that book and (aided by the plasmic life form) correctly experienced it not as a book about a world but the world itself (like Grasshopper
Reality is dreaming under the control of the object.
[ 15:38] What/who is this faint (i.e., still small
[ 15:39] The purpose of the Acts
I've got it! The AI
[ 15:43] I can't take any credit for perceiving Zebra, the adventitious savior; he/she/it/they enhanced my vision (i.e., removed the occlusion), and then I naturally saw Zebra and understood that it had invaded the construct and is camouflaged—mimesis . If the construct is regarded as an organism (which it is not) Zebra is like a cancer, replacing natural healthy cells, but in truth it's exactly the other way around: a criminal entity has been invaded by life giving cells which it can't detect, and so it accepts them into itself, replacing the iron ones . Zebra gets in past its biological
[ 15:47] It is essential that the person on his own initially rebel . He is presented with (without him knowing it) a puzzle, which he must solve: i.e., by balking (which is just another word for rebelling). (Balking = rebelling against .) The original myth, as Milton tells it (
Can it be said that the initial rebellion in itself starts into motion a breaking of the programming which comprises (1) [editor's note: a few pages earlier, Dick had defined (1) as the state of being imprisoned but not knowing it]. That this imprisoned state can be fought—and once cracked a little (
53) —starts into motion enormous processes of intervention and redemption (freeing totally)? It's as if once the tape
Then that which came to my rescue in 2-3-74, that supernatural entity Zebra, was me; and Thomas was me, and only when I actually understand (and experience this as real) will I really have the answer—but I have not yet reached that point . It is still impossible for me to grasp the AI voice as my own true, secret voice.
There swam up into my eyes, looking out, the Lord of the universe in this microform (me). Then it was not an invasion of me, but rather a surfacing in me . This is what (in me) rebelled, and, in doing so, passed over into ultimate actualization—the sacred second birth ,
