Jeannine winks at her . She feels virtuous (because of the dishes) and daring (because of something else). Hello? (It's his mother .) Jeannine glibly repeats the fake message she has practiced in her head; X's mother says, Hello? Hey!
says Jeannine, drawing irritable, jagged lines across her doodles on the telephone pad . She keeps trying to think of the night before, but all she can remember is Bud playing with his youngest daughter, the only time she's ever seen her brother get foolish . He bounces her on his knee and gets red in the face, swinging her about his head while she screams with delight.
Shocked at her own treachery, she bursts into tears . She hears Cal say Cal! she adds breathlessly; Mother! she says in a sudden flood of happiness and excitement, for the importance of what she has just done has suddenly become clear to her, Mother! (waving wildly out the window) Guess what! Mrs. Dadier, who is on her knees in the carrot bed, straightens up, shading her face with her one hand.
What comes after this will be very exciting, a sort of dramatic presentation, for Jeannine will have a big wedding . Mrs. Dadier drops her gardening trowel in sheer astonishment . She'll hurry inside, a tremendous elevation of mood enveloping both women; they will, in fact, embrace and kiss one another, and Jeannine will dance around the kitchen.
Jeannine will exclaim . Both will cry . It's the first time in Jeannine's life that she's managed to do something perfectly O.K . And not too late, either . She thinks that perhaps the lateness of her marriage will be compensated for by a special mellowness; there must be, after all, some reason for all that experimenting, all that reluctance . She imagines the day she will be able to announce even better news :
Cal himself hardly figures in this at all, for Jeannine has forgotten his laconism, his passivity, his strange mournfulness unconnected to any clear emotion, his abruptness, how hard it is to get him to talk about anything . She hugs herself, breathless with joy, waiting for Mrs. Dadier to hurry inside ;
For a long time I had been neuter, not a woman at all but One Of The Boys, because if you walk into a gathering of men, professionally or otherwise, you might as well be wearing a sandwich board that says: LOOK! I HAVE TITS! there is this giggling and this chuckling and this reddening and this Uriah Heep twisting and writhing and this fiddling with ties and fixing of buttons and making of allusions and quoting of courtesies and this self-conscious gallantry plus a smirky insistence on my physique—all this dreary junk just to please me . If you get good at being One Of The Boys it goes away . Of course there's a certain disembodiment involved, but the sandwich board goes; I back-slapped and laughed at blue jokes, especially the hostile kind . Underneath you keep saying pleasantly but firmly No no no no no no . But it's necessary to my job and I like my job . I suppose they decided that my tits were not of the best kind, or not real, or that they were someone else's (my twin sister's), so they split me from the neck up; as I said, it demands a certain disembodiment . I thought that surely when I had acquired my Ph.D. and my professorship and my tennis medal and my engineer's contract and my ten thousand a year and my full-time housekeeper and my reputation and the respect of my colleagues, when I had grown strong, tall, and beautiful, when my I.Q . shot past 200, when I had genius, then I could take off my sandwich board . I left my smiles and happy laughter at home . I'm not a woman; I'm a man . I'm a man with a woman's face . I'm a woman with a man's mind . Everybody says so . In my pride of intellect I entered a bookstore; I purchased a book; I no longer had to placate The Man; by God, I think I'm going to make it . I purchased a copy of John Stuart Mill's The Subjection of Women; now who can object to John Stuart Mill? He's dead . But the clerk did . With familiar archness he waggled his finger at me and said tsk tsk
Then there are the birds, with (as Shaw so nobly puts it) the touching poetry of their loves and nestings in which the males sing so well and beautifully and the females sit on the nest, and the baboons who get torn in half (female) by the others (male), and the chimpanzees with their hierarchy (male) written about by professors (male) with their hierarchy, who accept (male) the (male) view of (female) (male). You can see what's happening . At heart I must be gentle, for I never even thought of the praying mantis or the female wasp; but I guess I am just loyal to my own phylum . One might as well dream of being an oak tree . Chestnut tree, great-rooted hermaphrodite . I won't tell you what poets and prophets my mind is crammed full of (Deborah, who said
I cried, and then stopped crying because otherwise I would never have stopped crying . Things come to an awful dead center that way . You will notice that even my diction is becoming feminine, thus revealing my true nature; I am not saying Damn any more, or Blast; I am putting in lots of qualifiers like rather, I am writing in these breathless little feminine tags, she threw herself down on the bed, I have no structure (she thought), my thoughts seep out shapelessly like menstrual fluid, it is all very female and deep and full of essences, it is very primitive and full of and's, run-on sentences.
This means: in all hopelessness, in terror of your life, without a future, in the sink of the worst despair that you can endure and will yet leave you the sanity to make a choice—take in your bare right hand one naked, severed end of a high-tension wire . Take the other in your left hand . Stand in a puddle . (Don't worry about letting go; you can't .) Electricity favors the prepared mind, and if you interfere in this avalanche by accident you will be knocked down dead, you will be charred like a cutlet, and your eyes will be turned to burst red jellies, but if those wires are your own wires—hang on . God will keep your eyes in your head and your joints knit one to the other . When She sends the high voltage alone, well, we've all experienced those little shocks—you just shed it over your outside like a duck and it does nothing to you—but when She roars down high voltage and high amperage both, She is after your marrow-bones; you are making yourself a conduit for holy terror and the ecstasy of Hell . But only in that way can the wires heal themselves . Only in that way can they heal you . Women are not used to power; that avalanche of ghastly strain will lock your muscles and your teeth in the attitude of an electrocuted rabbit, but you are a strong woman, you are God's favorite, and you can endure; if you can say
Shrill vituperative no concern for the future of society maunderings of antiquated feminism selfish femlib needs a good lay this shapeless book of course a calm and objective discussion is beyond twisted, neurotic some truth buried in a largely hysterical of very limited interest, I should another tract for the trash-can burned her bra and thought that no characterization, no plot really important issues are neglected while hermetically sealed women's limited experience another of the screaming sisterhood a not very appealing aggressiveness could have been done with wit if the author had deflowering the pretentious male a man would have given his right arm to hardly girlish a woman's book another shrill polemic which the a mere male like myself can hardly a brilliant but basically confused study of feminine hysteria which feminine lack of objectivity this pretense at a novel trying to shock the tired tricks of the anti-novelists how often must a poor critic have to the usual boring obligatory references to Lesbianism denial of the profound sexual polarity which an all too womanly refusal to face facts pseudo-masculine brusqueness the ladies'-magazine level trivial topics like housework and the predictable screams of those who cuddled up to ball-breaker Kate will unfortunately sexless in its outlook drivel a warped clinical protest against violently waspish attack formidable self-pity which erodes any chance of formless the inability to accept the female role which the predictable fury at anatomy displaced to without the grace and compassion which we have the right to expect anatomy is destiny destiny is anatomy sharp and funny but without real weight or anything beyond a topical just plain bad we dear ladies ,
Janet has begun to follow strange men on the street; whatever will become of her? She does this either out of curiosity or just to annoy me; whenever she sees someone who interests her, woman or man, she swerves automatically (humming a little tune, da-dum, da-dee) and continues walking but in the opposite direction . When Whileawayan 1 meets Whileawayan 2, the first utters a compound Whileawayan word which may be translated as Hello-yes? to which the answer may be the same phrase repeated (but without the rising inflection), Hello-no . Hello alone, silence, or No! Hello-yes means I wish to strike up a conversation, Hello means I don't mind your remaining here but I don't wish to talk; Hello-no Stay here if you like but don't bother me in any way; silence I'd be much obliged if you'd get out of here; I'm in a foul temper . Silence accompanied by a quick shake of the head means I'm not ill-tempered but I have other reasons for wanting to be alone . No!
I asked Janet what happens if both Whileawayans say No! Oh she says (bored), they fight.
Janet is sitting next to Laura Rose on my nubbly-brown couch, half-asleep, half all over her friend in a confiding way, her head resting on Laur's responsible shoulder . A young she-tiger with a large, floppy cub . In her dozing Janet has shed ten years' anxiety and twenty pounds of trying-to-impress-others; she must be so much younger and sillier with her own people; grubbing in the tomato patch or chasing lost cows; what Safety and Peace officers do is beyond me . (A cow found her way into the Mountainpersons' common room and backed a stranger through a foam wall by trying to start a conversation—Whileawayans have a passion for improving the capacities of domestic animals—she kept nudging this visitor and saying
'Tell us about the cow ,"says Laura Rose . No ,
says Laura Rose . Tell! No, Tell! says Laur, twisting my little finger . I bury my face in my hands . Ay, no . Ay, no . Laura must hear . She kissed my neck and then my ear in a passion for all the awful things I do as S & P; I straightened up and rocked back and forth . The trouble with you people is you get no charge from death . Myself, it shakes me all over . Somebody I'd never met had left a note saying the usual thing: ha ha on you, you do not exist, go away, for we are so bloody cooperative that we have this solipsistic underside, you see? So I went up-mountain and found her; I turned on my two-way vocal three hundred yards from criminal Elena Twason and said, Vacation? and by this I began to understand that she hadn't had to go mad to do this and that was terrible . I said ,
says Elena Twason . Cow? says I, ignoring the rest ,
she said, so off-hand, so good-humored, Elena! Face facts ,
Laur, who has been listening intently all this time, bloodthirsty little devil, takes Janet's face in her hands . No, Aaaah! is Laura Rose's long, disbelieving, angry comment . She came over to me :
she said slowly, nodding courteously to Jeannine and me ,
Janet sleeps or pretends to, Joanna knits (that's me), Jeannine is in the kitchen . Laura Rose, still resentfully twitching with unconquered Genghis Khan-ism, takes a book from my bookshelf and lies on her stomach on the rug . I believe she is reading an art book, something she isn't interested in . The house seems asleep . In the desert between the three of us the dead Elena Twason Zdubakov begins to take shape; I give her Janet's eyes, Janet's frame, but bent with age, some of Laur's impatient sturdiness but modified with the graceful trembling of old age: her papery skin, her smile, the ropy muscles on her wasted arms, her white hair cut in an economical kind of thatch . Helen's belly is loose with old age, her face wrinkled, a never-attractive face like that of an extremely friendly and intelligent horse: long and droll . The lines about her mouth would be comic lines . She's wearing a silly kind of khaki shorts-and-shirt outfit which is not really what Whileawayans wear, but I give it to her anyway . Her ears are pierced . Her mountain twig has become a carved jade pipe covered with scenes of vines, scenes of people crossing bridges, people pounding flax, processions of cooks or grain-bearers . She wears a spray of red mountain-ash berries behind one ear . Elena is about to speak; from her comes a shock of personal strength, a wry impressiveness, an intelligence so powerful that in spite of myself I open my arms to this impossible body, this walking soul, this somebody's grandma who could say with such immense elan to her legal assassin ,
I said . (It had a handle . )
said Jeannine, still whispering . Oh? Infinitely ,
said I, choosing my words with extreme care ,
she said (and I enjoyed her enjoyment of my enjoyment of her enjoyment of that cliche )
( with a soft, cultivated laugh) I am, says Jael Reasoner ,
said Janet with care, What war?
said Miss Reasoner ironically, raising her silver eyebrows . No ,
said Jael more genuinely ,
said Sweet Alice, making a face . Who? said Jeannine crossly.
said Alice Reasoner softly.
Later I caught Jeannine by the door as we were all leaving ;
She took us topside in the branch elevator: The Young One, The Weak One, The Strong One, as she called us in her own mind . I'm the author and I know . Miss Sweden (she also called Janet this) ran her hands over the paneling and studied the controls while the other two gaped . Think of me in my usual portable form . Their underground cities are mazes of corridors like sunken hotels; we passed doors, barricades, store windows, branch corridors leading to arcades . What is this passion for living underground? At one barrier they put us in purdah, that is, some kind of asbestos-like fireman's suit that protects you against other people's germs and them against yours . But this time it was a fake, meant only to hide us.
said Jael . She went apart with the border guard and there was some low-voiced, aggressive byplay, some snarling and lifting of hackles which a third party resolved by a kind of rough joking . I didn't hear a word of it . She told us honestly that we couldn't be expected to believe anything we hadn't seen with our own eyes . There would be no films, no demonstrations, no statistics, unless we asked for them . We trundled out of the elevator into an armored car waiting in a barn, and across an unpaved, shell-pocked plain, a sort of no-man's-land, in the middle of the night . Is the grass growing? Is that a virus blight? Are the mutated strains taking over? Nothing but gravel, boulders, space, and stars . Jael flashed her pass at a second set of guards and told them about us, jerking her thumb backwards at the three of us: unclean, unclean, unclean . No barriers, no barbed wire, no searchlights; only the women have these . Only the men make a sport of people-hunting across the desert . Bulkier than three pregnancies, we followed our creatrix into another car, from out that first one, through the rubble and ruin at the edges of an old city, left standing just as it had been during the plague . Teachers come out here on Sundays, with their classes . It looks as if it's been used for target practice, with holes in everything and new scars, like mortar scars, on the rubble . It has, says Jael Reasoner . Each of us wears a luminous, shocking-pink cross on chest and back to show how deadly we are . So the Manlanders (who all carry guns) won't take pot-shots at us . There are lights in the distance—don't think I know any of this by hearsay; I'm the spirit of the author and know all things . I'll know it when we begin to pass the lit-up barracks at the edge of the city, when we see in the distance the homes of the very rich shining from the seven hilltops on which the city is built; I'll know it when we go through a tunnel of rubble, built fashionably to resemble a World War I trench, and emerge neither into a public nursery (they're either much further inside the city proper or out in the country) nor into a brothel, but into a recreation center called The Trench or The Prick or The Crotch or The Knife . I haven't decided on a name yet . The Manlanders keep their children with them only when they're very rich—but what posit I? Manlanders have no children . Manlanders buy infants from the Womanlanders and bring them up in batches, save for the rich few who can order children made from their very own semen: keep them in city nurseries until they're five, then out into the country training ground, with the gasping little misfits buried in baby cemeteries along the way . There, in ascetic and healthful settlements in the country, little boys are made into Men—though some don't quite make it; sex-change surgery begins at sixteen . One out of seven fails early and makes the full change; one out of seven fails later and (refusing surgery) makes only half a change: artists, illusionists, impressionists of femininity who keep their genitalia but who grow slim, grow languid, grow emotional and feminine, all this the effect of spirit only . Five out of seven Manlanders make it; these are real-men . the changed the half-changed.
We went inside; Jael! there are— Look again ,
Look at the necks, look at the wrists and ankles, penetrate the veils of false hair and false eyelashes to measure the relative size of eyes and bone structure . The half-changed starve themselves to be slim, but look at their calves and the straightness of their arms and knees . If most of the fully changed live in harims and whore-homes, and if popular slang is beginning to call them cunts, The enemy, Sit here.
( she said) Business! he said fetchingly.
he said enthusiastically . Lenny— she began (slipping under his arm) Come on!
cried Jael, moving behind the table ,
He laughed, basso-profundo . Sure ,
said Jael Reasoner patiently.
says Janet pedantically from inside her suit, Her? Him! Dearest sister, says Anna softly, sweetly ,
I guess Anna's boss just wanted to see the alien poontang . I don't know yet what he wants, but I will . His wife clicked in with a tray of drinks—scarlet skin-tights, no underwear, transparent high-heeled sandals like Cinderella's—she gave us a homey, cute smile (she wears no make-up and is covered with freckles) and stilted out . Man talk . They seldom earn wives before fifty . Art, they say, has had a Renaissance among the Manlander rich, but this one doesn't look like a patron: jowly, pot-bellied, the fierce redness of an athlete forced into idleness . His heart? High blood pressure? But they all cultivate their muscles and let their health and their minds rot . There is a rather peculiar wholesomeness to the home life of a Manland millionaire; Boss, for example, would not think of letting his wife go anywhere alone—that is, risk the anarchy of the streets—even with a bodyguard . He knows what's due her . Their women, they say, civilize them . For an emotional relationship, turn to a woman.
He stares rudely, unable to conceal it: What are they? What do they do? Do they screw each other? What does it feel like? (Try and tell him!) He doesn't waste a second on the pink crosses in purdah; they're only women I thought, said I mildly, Personal life!
He leaned forward . No, Look here, I—
( he continued, deaf as a post )
I was silent . He leaned back.
he said . Then he made a personal remark :
he said, taking some more chips.
( A weak woman handling a pot of boiling oil . )
