[ 90: F-11] What I have been doing these seven years is philosophical inquiry in the old sense, that of the pre-Socratics . Before science and philosophy parted company . I'm not sure my issues are in fact metaphysical . What confronted me in 2-3-74 was
That is, reality behaving in an inexplicable way which no known theory could explain or account for . How does this seven years of study and analysis differ from scientific research? This has not been a game . Something I witnessed puzzled me and I set out to understand it . When I did finally understand it, I found that my questions went all the way back to the 40s . And I have not been the first to raise the question . If the traditional, fully accepted theories of causation were true, the perturbation
[ 90: G-43] I just realized I had an amazing dream . I—or the character—was deprived of world totally . At once he—his own mind—filled in the sensory vacuum with a spurious autogenerated world, so he wouldn't go crazy . Next thing, he took this world to be real; the closer he scrutinized it, due to the fact that he as percipient was in fact generating it, the more actualized, detailed and convincing it became, because his perception of it was (in a certain real way) his production of it; hence the more intense scrutiny and more actualized, articulated and convincing it became as it moved toward perfection (of actualization) as a limit, the more it compelled his assent . Put another way, the less he realized—would tend to realize on the basis of his empirical observations that (1) it was spurious; and (2) he himself was its creator . However, under such circumstances, to overcome this positive feedback self-authenticating hoax-involvement, a clock-timed tape in his mind—or accessible to his mind; e.g., speaking directly into his ear or inner ear—was set in advance to speak to him at regular intervals reminders of the truth, and his true situation . The tape was plugged into RET,13 but since part of his spurious autogenerated world was fake time—an integral aspect of spurious world generated out of total sensory deprivation—these reminders, these messages from the real world, came to him (in terms of his own subjective time) at increasingly farther apart (i.e., longer) intervals and thus failed to serve their purpose (anamnesis involving the knowledge that his world is spurious, and no amount of scrutiny on his part will correct this, inasmuch as the harder he scrutinizes it, the more convincing it will become). What he faces as a dual limit is an infinitely convincing (but actually fake and self-generated) dream world existing for an infinite time . (Which, it occurs to me, may explain
My analysis is this: he, whoever he is, has gotten himself into this very fix and has therefore fallen under the spell of an ever more convincing and ever more extensive in time fake world that he himself is generating; he, world and time are in a closed loop, a closed system; moreover, it is equally clear to me that this (dream) is the true explanation—and reveals the true significance of 2-3-74 at which place I (he
What I am saying is that this dream states that I myself am the mind I know as Valis, I generate the info (they are my own thoughts and ideas; viz: as I once previously speculated, I got into my own world producing mental machinery) and, what is more, what I call the binary computer is a vision of my own mind as world creator; I think (as binary computer), and these thoughts are the information that I am compelled to give assent to as world (which is why to some extent we control our own world, it adjusts to our perceptions of it—of course it does; this is a closed feedback loop literally pouring back into itself to reinforce itself—and
[ 90: G-49] Valis in me was my own mind, was God but fallen God, forgetful, unintentional, cosmogenitor of world . * The
is my own mind creating irreal imprisoning worlds for me (as if VALIS and Frozen Journey
[ 90: G-53] The dream of last night (supra) shows that I am hopelessly trapped, because the harder and longer I scrutinize world the more articulated, detailed, convincing and real
[ 90:130: G-75] Therefore I deem it correct to say that yes I have been correct in saying (as I have periodically) that 3-74 represented the lifting of an occlusion from me so that I saw reality either more accurately or (if this is possible )
What I see is a threat that only someone fighting off psychosis could appreciate: the disappearance of world along two routes: (1) comprehensibility; (2) believability . Viz: you could find yourself understanding it but not believing it to be real—my 10-volume meta-novel—or finding it real but being unable to make any sense out of it—3-74 and VALIS . On the bright side, however, this has permitted me to formulate some formidable epistemological and, finally, theological questions, and even a few halting tentative answers.
The way out of the solipsistic trap is to presume God, since world is dubitable . Thus there is self and there is other, and this other is powerful, benign, wise, loving, and perhaps most important of all, able and willing to provide—in fact guarantee—world (under the conditions of Cartesian epistemology).
[ 90:134: G-79] This is my idiosyncratic road to God . For others—who have not been the doubt, who have not known 32 years of doubt, this would not seem to constitute proof . But I say: I do not have it within my own power to compel my own assent to anything but my doubting self; thus on my own I possess no sense of knowing anything but myself, which is a sentence to hell, perpetual unrelenting hell.
Wer wird mich erlösen?
14 My argument is a variation of Cartesian reasoning (and in my opinion an important one) and so it is in an honorable tradition . I say with Malebranche that I see all things in God; it is God who extricates me from my solipsistic prison . I did not write 35 novels and 150 stories without coming to a good understanding of the sinister implications of no world, irreal world, inscrutable world—that second only to the gift of life itself is the gift of world, of the other . Perhaps it is even a greater gift, since it involves all creation . (Viz: I might well choose personal death over the extinction of the cosmos .) What I see people ordinarily saying is that world of its own accord impinges on us: impinges coherently and convincingly . The Cartesians show that this is not the case . I say, the whole cosmos could be presented to me and yet I would not find it real unless God himself bestowed on me the essential gift of my finding it convincing, a gift that through my own powers of reasoning and observation I find myself incapable of acquiring, a state I on my own cannot achieve . I cannot persuade myself and I cannot compel myself to believe; unless God compels me I will not believe, and if I do not believe, I am doomed to a certain kind of hell . I know from experience that God can compel that assent, for he did this by a rustle of color in the grass . He can absolutely impinge on me; he can break into my prison world and destroy it—burst the prison, release me . That my assent might be compelled by perceptual and cognitive occlusion and amnesia does not in the slightest matter to me because the ends justifies the means, since I cannot live at all unless I'm taken out of my private prison . That is why I see the issue as one of belief on my part, not on the truth of what I believe . I know now that if there is something that is true I will never on my own know it . Or if I know it I will not believe I know it . Like Victor Kemmings at the end of Frozen Journey
My argument that (I have proof that) God exists is odd . I do not say ,
; that is dubitable as an argument because my experience may have been a hallucination (I experienced it but it was not real). But I can say ,
In other words I cannot doubt that I believe, and I know of no way that I can believe on my own power, unaided . Therefore the Cartesian proposition cogito ergo sum is not the limit to what I can be certain of: I can say ,
[ 90: G-131] I will conclude this nightmare marathon analysis by noting that my 10-volume meta-novel can herewith be newly—and perhaps finally correctly—understood . And it serves a very valuable (Gnostic) purpose, to emancipate the cosmogenitor from his own world, to which he is fallen victim . In terms of this, VALIS can be seen as the logical culmination of the total corpus . Likewise Frozen Journey.
[ 90: G-141] What is most remarkable is not just perceiving one's soul in and hence derived from the divine mind, but to see that soul as a complex of ideas, interacting to form a coherency: one's soul as something that cannot only be known but also thought: soul, then, as idea—and taking the form of ideas or sub-ideas clustered together: reduced to or derived from what may in the final analysis be words . That's why the term thing
[ 77: G-8] You won't believe this later when you're not ripped, but your 10 volume meta-novel is
—the story that (1) each of us lives in a unique individual world; (2) it is spurious; (3) it is fed to us by the plasmate—this is told in VALIS if you add it (VALIS) to the corpus; and (4) we have some control over our individual worlds, since somehow it derives from us; it isn't just imposed on us (e.g., Frozen Journey ,
One vast artistic vision, all the way from Wub to DI, with particular emphasis on Scanner, the intro to The Golden Man, VALIS, Chains...Web
So VALIS is part—an integral part—of the vision that began with Roog and forms one seamless whole . The whole theological, etc., view in VALIS (and to a lesser extent in DI) is like some vast book within a book, an artistic vision within a greater vision—i.e., my total corpus . It's like the movie in VALIS: another
There is no truth in this, only artistic vision: but for me, in terms of my own vision, truth (objectively) has no meaning; to state that X is truth
Now, how does this relate to his later involvement with the Zadokite Document and the Anokhi mushroom? The Zadokite sect knew how to get into the Paradiso realm (alternate reality) in which Christ is here . (This clearly relates to Allegro's hallucination
In other words from the beginning Bishop Archer is searching for Christ . The Dante
There is a certain quality of Jack Isidore in Bishop Archer: the capacity to believe anything, any pseudoscience or theosophy . The
The Zadokite Document (scrolls) convinces Bishop Archer—who had devoted his life to
( which makes sense given the fact that he is after all a Bishop) —that Christ was irrelevant.
Archer's involvement with Barefoot is ecumenical, but with the Zadokite and Anokhi mushroom stuff he has ecumenicalled himself out of Christianity entirely . Barefoot is crushed, heartbroken—an example of the casualties Archer leaves along the road behind him in his speed-rush Faustian quest, always exceeding itself, surpassing itself (it is really Dionysus that has hold of him). Barefoot, Calif. guru that he is, acts as a rational stable counterpoint to Archer's frenzy . Barefoot is authentically what he seems to be, claims to be: a spiritual person and teacher; he is not a fraud . He is always being demolished in discussions by other more formal thinkers, e.g., those at UC Berkeley, e.g., on KPFA . But—like Watts—he has his followers . He is really quite systematic and rigorous in his thinking . He does not foresee Archer suddenly abandoning him and flying off to Europe vis-à-vis the Zadokite scrolls—he, the Sufi, the non-Christian, is horrified when Archer turns his back on Christ . Archer declares that now he has found the true religion (at last). This very concept (the true religion
Barefoot claims actually to have experienced the 3 Realms . I will assign to him my
So I have the Bay Area gay community, the Bay Area Alan Watts KPFA
( 4) VALIS is salient and evolves into the Bishop Timothy Archer
( 5) My turning down the Blade Runner offer to do the Archer book for only $7,500 is a double-edged spiritual advance: (1) to turn down the money; (2) to do the Archer
( 10) Finally, I am right now triumphing, as I write the Archer book . Not as a literary piece but rather having to do with Anokhi . Had I not turned down the Blade Runner offer, had I not tackled the Archer
[ 79: I-13] 17 I see the legend of Satan in a new way; Satan desired to know God as fully as possible . The fullest knowledge would come if he became God, was himself God . He strove for this and achieved it, knowing that the punishment would be his permanent exile from God . But he did it anyhow, because the memory of knowing God, really knowing him as no one else ever had or would, justified to him his eternal punishment . Now, who would you say truly loved God out of everyone who ever existed? Satan willingly accepted eternal punishment and exile just to know God—by becoming God—for an instant . Further (it occurs to me) Satan knew God, truly knew God, but perhaps God did not know or truly understand Satan; had he understood him he would not have punished him . But Satan welcomed that punishment, for it was his proof to himself that he knew and loved God . Otherwise he might have done what he did for [the] reward.
I did see God (3-74), and as a vast signalling system who operates in us and on us by hieroglyphics that are stimuli—and this (seeing thus, and correctly) drove me mad; I am mad but I did see God . Yet I continue, for at last God's essence, which transcends madness, will sober me in love: cf . Donne's batter my heart
[ 79: I-19] In 2-3-74 the Geist in me rebelled against Fate (death) expressed by the Xerox missive and, in rebelling, became self-aware (Anokhi); this is what I knew (and knew of) as Valis . It could not rebel unless it became self-aware; it could not be self-aware without rebelling (against fate). (This finds expression in VALIS when I say of the plasmate :
Thus in a certain poetic way it is true to say I seized the Book of the Spinners—i.e., of Fate—read the writing and caused it (my fate) to come out differently.18 Put another way, I refused my instructions to die—my programming; I rebelled against it . These are poetic or quasi-poetic, but rebel, Fate spirit consciousness
[ 79: I-24] The issue is not reality or ontology but consciousness—the possibility of pure, absolute consciousness occurring . In terms of which material things (objects) become language or information, conveying or recording or expressing meaning or ideas or thoughts; Mind using reality as a carrier for information, as an LP groove is used to carry information; to record, store and play it back . This is the essential issue; this use of material reality by mind as a carrier for information by which information is processed—and this is what I saw that I called Valis, and anyone who reads VALIS and thinks it is just a rehash of metaphysical ideas or ideas
[ 79: I-30] All I can think of is that reality is pure consciousness; that only Anokhi exists, purely and solely . That what we have is ascending degrees of perception, and the ultimate is perception of pure consciousness out there
I can express the essence of it: reality refers to something above, beyond and outside itself; it is (literally is) an idea about something else; it is not so much information but an idea or concept of something beyond it (itself). Hence I discerned info recorded encoded into/on it . What I have been missing is: this causes reality—not just to be a vehicle for info—but, as a vehicle, to be caused to refer to something outside itself . Thus it signifies (as what is seen) what is not seen, and this (my not-seen) is my surd . And I know what that (surd) is: it is God impinging on reality (but distinct from it, Spinoza to the contrary). Hence this is why I saw pretextual cause camouflage
I have had it all and never realized it before (except that I understood the surd concept). Hence the AI voice speaks of a
—pointing beyond the reality field! All creation registers the imprint of God and reveals God . But not in the traditional design sense; no: not design but sign which must be read; sign pointing to what lies beyond it (viz: a sign does not point to itself). Put another way, if there was no creation, the existence of God would be metaphysical, just as without the iron filings the magnetic field is metaphysical . Yet we do not and cannot normally read reality at all . It is either-or, not degree . Both the immanent and transcendent views are wrong; a totally new view is needed! Viewed this way the Acts, dream and cypher material in Tears becomes completely understandable . This is how the I Ching works, the registering as if by a limpid passive vegetable
[ 79: I-34] When I saw the Grail this morning (5:30 A.M.) I did not see it per se; I did not, either, see it created out of nothing . I saw an ordinary physical normal every-day cup already in world affected by God; the cup in a sort of mist of color—the space around the cup as mist-like colors; and this cup became the Grail; it changed; it was made into (?) the Grail, and it did not just seem to me to be the Grail; it was the Grail; it was what I would say converted into spirit, a spiritual thing: Grailified, so to speak . Light did not emanate from it; it was transfigured by a sort of material light that showed—displayed or was—colors . He must have a physical cup or cup-like object in, I guess, our Lower Realm, to shape and mold and change and transform and Grailify.
I found myself thinking ,
and then I realized ,
[ 79: I-36] Bishop Archer.
He puts up the greatest fight possible against sinister Fate; this could include fighting against deteriorating into a credulous crank: Kristen's death sobers him up . Yet if he believes Rachel's prophecy he has de facto succumbed to superstitious credulity! Is this not Scylla and Charybdis? To avoid death he must believe in crackpots . The reader, knowing of Jim Pike's death, will see the irony of the situation . Angel counsels him not to believe what mediums say; but he cannily senses that he had been heeding Rachel's warning at the cost of seeming/being a nut :
( 6) ∴ (sic!) He goes to Israel to seek
