's actions were not programmed, not part of the original world and life . They were an ideationless overpowering, as if located only in my motor centers . Thomas was not born in my brain but born in my body, e.g., my hands and tongue; he moved and spoke but in my brain there were no ideas or thoughts or intentions; he was intentionless, and yet had absolute purpose . Purpose without intent! Plan without plan! Or rather goal without plan . Truly it was Zen . Yes; indeed it was . So my theory (herewith) demands/predicts salvation by a not-you ideationless self acting at the moment of crisis when the taped world (or track of heimarmene) branches off into the new and free, and upon retrospective analysis we find Thomas ,
I'm saying that NFMD can't happen without GO . So it's an up by his bootstraps situation, a self-causing situation—then truly it is ex nihilo . (No wonder there was no ideation!) This is a time-travel paradox . Both GO and NFMD are generated within a closed system out of nothing and enter from nowhere; i.e., from outside the system . GO is dependent for its existence on NFMD, and NFMD on GO, so which is cause and which is effect? Answer: each is the cause of the other and the effect of the other . Consider the original groove-tracking situation . How do you get out of it? Answer: you have to be out of it to get out of it; look to The Tao of Physics (Capra) and the bootstrap theory for the answer; I knew I was dealing with field theory and quanta when I dealt with Valis . Put even more simply, How can you do something you would not do? which is required for salvation in my system (disregarding the temporal factor the paradox still remains). There would have to be a psychological (mental) death and rebirth as someone different; but where did it come from? Hence Thomas ,
Now let's try this theory . The ability to make time run backward gets you out of your programmed groove (groove tracking) and renders you free . This ability and only this ability frees you from an otherwise airtight tyranny that dooms all mankind, all life forms, in fact . Thus this is a stunning and probably new survival talent, an evolutionary new ability that advances the individual up the ladder of homeostasis to a stage where he is a whole other higher organism entirely . It is equal in terms of the evolution of life to the development of the opposable thumb, the eye, the lung, the wing, the large cerebral cortex, standing upright, etc . Upon the perfection (so to speak field operation) of this ability the human has become higher than the angels and all that implies . He is operating in a supratemporal dimension, and this has vast implications for knowledge; for overcoming causality—if he can affect the past he can modulate the present (what I called Valis
Comments on 1-30-80 piece
[ 82:112] A long time ago the AI voice itself defined Valis, and I knew this was the definitive statement because I used it as the opening statement in the dictionary definition in VALIS :
Since normally reality is process (in time), when time is stopped, a vast change occurs: things cease to pass away . Then what I call the phylogons are visible as the moving dot present vanishes and is replaced by the slot which exposes reality as accretional layers . The form axis categories are visible, the true basis of reality . Nothing comes into being and noth ing passes away; the present-dot scanning system is gone and the whole groove
The golden fish sign acted as a retrieval trigger or key for an earlier space-time; it did retrieve it, showing that when time stands still or is reversed the past age (of two thousand years ago) is still there . What I called anamnesis
So as the moving dot of the present passes forward along linear time, the past reality is collected in Valis' memory, but in the abstract hierarchical way that Arthur Koestler describes as the basis on which human memory operates . Thus the past does not exist as it did once exist as the present, but rather in the abstracted phylogons which are inter-related by affinity, meaning, etc . Could synchronicity
This constitutes in its entirety a new revelation; Valis is no God formerly known; closer to Ubik than to YHWH or even Mazda . It may be a local krasis, in fact, planet-wide only (hence a UTI, so to speak)? Negentropic vortex! Which grows by assimilating its environment; it (the vortex or krasis or kosmos) has a higher level of organization, like a cell . This higher level of organization permits it to assimilate its environment by way of arrangement—i.e., pattern—and can't be discerned because the material objects remain unchanged; all that changes is their arrangement to each other and one another; it's like a very advanced game of Go . This is why we are occluded
Of course it is negentropic; it is a life form . Damn it; can't I finally drop the theology and the metaphysics and deal in levels of homeostasis, hierarchies of organization, in such terms as complexity, evolution, assimilation, reticulation, arborization, enantiodromia, etc., and not Christ and such? Plato likewise? The
It (Valis) is only in the Realm of Forms
[ 83:23] Okay: Christ is some kind of divine life form that came here to enlighten and aid man; specifically, to lift the occlusion that fell over man in primordial times, a perceptual and cognitive occlusion such as I noticed in 1971; what I now call the schizophrenia virus . There is absolutely no orthodoxy—and perhaps no heresy that I know of—that would explain
This reve lation, from Christ himself, has stupendous significance . It means that part of the divine machinery, a very high part, detached itself two thousand years ago and came here with healing information for us . Our ecosphere is surrounded by a ring of what we know of as angels, who administer the inflexible karmic law that the Gnostics knew of as heimarmene; but, worst of all, we are occluded . Christ is, above all else, not a revealer but a physician; he is here not just to teach us—inform us of our condition—but to extricate us from our condition which is cruelly imposed on us . Probably the secret stolen is imaged in Genesis by the other tree that we did not eat of: that of eternal life, which explains Jesus' remark ,
Usually when you think of a secret stolen you think of a How to...secret, not a that secret in the sense of ,
: i.e., suppressed information.
J. Bible comment :
In my hypnopompic state, and that time under nitrous oxide, I saw Christ and Valis as an arborizing, reticulating vine . He is literally a vine, with a vast number of filaments stretching throughout this ecosphere; this is the meta-soma that I saw . We become immortal by becoming part of it :
And there the notes end, because at that moment the phonecall from Russ came where I learned that Bantam doesn't feel it can publish VALIS . What a place for the notes to end! What was I going to say, had I not been interrupted?
[ 83:30] What we must do is welcome a new savior, now—hence the prophecies by the AI voice; this is why the theological overkill: St. Sophia, Buddha, Siddhartha, The Head Apollo, YHWH, this is why it said, the secret stolen means: the revolutionary character of the Third Age contra Christianity . Spiritual knowledge has been stolen and given to us directly :
[ 83:34] The Savior of the Third Age, unlike Jesus, will not be in human form; he will (as Jesus says) be everywhere, like
[ 83:38] I have come across the expression in the EB
The fundamental building block in the macrometasoma is information; in a way every piece that is incorporated is treated as information, rather than an object . A piece is not put in place according to shape or size but according to meaning, or morphological import . This is because the substantia of the macrometasoma is pattern or structure per se: arrangement, organization—which is to say, kosmos . I speak of connectives of relatedness . The relationship between everything actually occurs in the form of connectives in the macrometasoma, but these connectives arise within our flux world, and enter the macrometasoma as further accretions; so the development or evolution or complexification of the macrometasoma is dependent on events in our flux world . This is why I say our flux world is the metabolism of the macrometasoma, its brain activity . Plato was right and the Medieval realists were right; the categories really do exist and they are permanent; but our world is not a reflection, a pale shadow, of them; it is the source for the Form world ,
I have reached really monumental conclusions about Valis; I have come to Christian Platonism and am very close (if not congruent to) Plotinus' Neoplatonism and the possibility, expressed by Plotinus, of experiencing the Form world and the Mind of the One, Valis being the One; have I not said that the essence of Valis is unity, that Valis above all is, through structure, unitary? This, then, is Plotinus' One or God . And unity is what I saw that made me realize I had seen Valis (as I call it). I know how the One can be the One; it is via Pythagoras' structure which is to say kosmos in the sense that Pythagoras meant that term to be used :
I am, then, identifying Plotinus' One with Pythagoras' kosmos, with a hint of Sankara's doctrine about Brahman and the Atman . I am saying, This reality, this plurality of things in flux, can be said to be the One which is eternal because on a meta-level there is Pythagoras' structure or kosmos, and although it changes it changes in only one direction: a cumulative evolving toward completeness and total complexity that embraces everything . The answer to ,
It is through Pythagoras' structure, which is to say kosmos; and it has a mind; it is a mind; it is alive; it thinks; as Xenophanes said ,
Now, it is also the case that Valis is not passively related to the world but steers everything (to use a Greek concept of the relationship between God and the world order). God is totally involved in the world order . (The Gnostics are absolutely wrong, as Plotinus realized .) Everything that happens in our flux world can be said to be the God shaking things (to use Xenophanes' term). So in a very real sense God feeds into this world as its motive force and then takes out what occurs for the metakosmos—the Form world.
Quantum mechanics enters because I am regarding the world order as a single interacting field (as presented dramatically in TMITHC). The One can be regarded as the noös of this field; or a psyche-soma biological model can be envisioned . Or even the Logos—I have no idea which is correct, and neither does anyone else . There is a single interacting field and there is a mind ubiquitous in it, immanent in it—cf . Ubik . Spinoza would agree; in no way do I see God as transcendent to reality, off somewhere far above us in a heaven, with Earth down here . Ubik shows what I suppose: deity in the very trash of the alley . And deity intimately connected with and utilizing—if not actually being—information.
[ 83:57] Strangest of all, the Upper Realm, the macrometasoma, seems to be this realm, this world of the dialectic, of flux, seen another way—as if the Gnostics are right: and to see it healed is to cause it to be healed . Could this be the observer-participant universe of quantum mechanics?
as the E. of S-F. quotes me.
[ 83:60] Then the Acts
As impossible as it may seem, the Acts material in Tears was self-generating, a kind of tracing due to principles of physics that we simply do not understand, related to synchronicity . And as to the cypher ,
( Re Eliade) A mythological event unfolds in another kind of time (illo tempore, * etc.). Therefore if you can get (your self) into a mythological narrative you will enter this dream time (as opposed to entering dream time and, by means of that, entering the myth). The entrée to dream time is to reenact the (i.e., a) myth . I accidentally did this in 2-3-74 vis-à-vis Acts
[ 83:70] The Xerox missive is part of the Gnostic legend of the Pearl: the letter to the prince who has lost his memories (in an alien land) which restores those memories . This legend
The value—or one value—of this explanation is the why me? solution . God did not choose me for any reason, such as merit or need on my part . Chance played the determining role in selecting me: chance actions on my part . Alone, without a priest or guide, I re-performed an ancient myth whose nature I still do not fully understand . Mainly it had to do with a letter which both informed me of something about myself (my actual nature and actual origins) and posed a grave problem that I had to solve . Had there been no letter there would have been no other universe, no altered, enhanced perceptions, no second signal.
What I say of this is: there is another universe, and through such reenactment of sacred ritual as I accidentally engaged in you can enter it and commune with the gods . This is recognized by, e.g., Eliade, but how many civilized
[ 83:76] The space-time world of this sacred time is found in the Bible as the book of Acts . Thus when I wrote Tears I discerned this stratum, showing through in a ghostly fashion, as the basis of reality . Acts describes the power of Rome as expressed in the Procurator Felix . He interrogates his prisoner Paul; Paul is under arrest and in the hands of the Roman authorities.68 He will eventually be released . This is the supratemporal template: the power and presence of Rome; the Procurator; the prisoner who is interrogated and finally released . The Empire would like to destroy him but in the final phases of the encounter between them fails . Thus the life of the prisoner ends not in martyrdom but in freedom, in release . This is in a sense an opposite story from that of the crucifixion where the prisoner is condemned to death and dies . Here the prisoner is set free and this means that sacred time has moved forward from the time of the Gospels to a different time . The prisoner slides through the fingers of the Empire . This story is found in the life of John Taverner, the 15th century English musician who was arrested on suspicion of possessing heretical books but then released
This narrative can be entered from any point in mundane time by the correct entry key which in itself tells a story or a part of a story—part of the master narrative (which, as I say, is information out of which reality is generated). What interests me is the apparent fact that there are a number of sacred narratives, not one, so that different entry keys—which is to say different mythic rites—punch you into different narratives, which is to say different meta-realities . For example, Christianity is only one narrative
Now, here on [>] of this paper, I come across another and never before suspected computer aspect of Valis: that it contains a number of sacred histories, which is to say sacred narratives, not just one; and different mythic rites reperformed keypunch you into entry into particular narratives among the plural narratives; and I called these programs . Which as I put it means that Christianity is not the truth but only one sacred narrative ,
I punched into Christianity because of the particular mythic rite I reenacted; had I reenacted another mythic rite I would have punched into another sacred narrative ,
This is essentially exemplar history; the Jews view history this way, seeing YHWH's bringing the Jewish people out of their Egyptian captivity as a timeless, in fact eternal event, always happening . However, the situation is now different; the enslaved people cannot be rescued by departing the Empire because the Empire is worldwide; instead, they must overthrow the Empire . This is precisely what the Acts
[ 83:95] For decades I have sought to see
and when I finally saw it it turned out to be a historical exemplar situation, a dramatic one; in fact a narrative that could be expressed as a story . (And I myself had done so!) So I am saying something quite remarkable and unusual: the world (identified by Schopenhauer with Brahman) turns out to be a dramatic story that can be rendered in words—although I saw it as reality, as reified, as substantia . Yes; this is what substantia turns out to be, for me: not
This is why I dreamed of Elijah and Mount Carmel and Elisha and Elias.
If this is so—well, anyhow I was on the right track in VALIS Regained . But: to suppose, just suppose, that Valis is YHWH! To imagine it even for a moment...it was what I wanted so badly when I was a kid first reading the Bible . This is Sila,69 the soul of the universe, speaking in a woman's voice Through past.
I have to realize that the revelation about the reality of the Prison is a genuine revelation; it exists down through the ages and it exists now . I saw it: Prison and Empire, the tunnel of history . When I say revelation Acts material in Tears decode to mean: where the Prison is, He is there, too? I think so . I think that is it—and this is also true—very true—of the two-word cypher . I wrote the Prison narrative, and God put in the Christian narrative . Together these two parts form the complete story . (My story by itself is only half the story; the rest—the good part—I didn't know .) The story is not just
As to the question ,
In my six and a half years of working on my exegesis I have often said ,
[ 83:136] Fascinating, the view that the dialectical struggle of the two historical constants—the Empire and the Christians—gives rise to Valis the Cosmic Christ, who builds his body out of the stockpile of parts
Nonetheless (without repeating the arguments; I always repeat my arguments, stating them again and again in exactly the same words, like a stuck LP) I will say: I found myself in 2-3-74 involved with theophany, miracle, pronoia and enthusiasmos by the Second Comforter . Now, I will certainly natter on past this point, worry and ponder and obsessively write for years to come; but this is a kind of tribute on my part to the importance of what I underwent, what I saw, what I learned; it is a way of preserving the memory of it all, this endless rehashing: that is the real point, to keep the memory—which is so cherished—alive . After all, it has been over six and a half years, now! And I don't want to forget . Valis was the Christian God, whether YHWH or Christ; and inside me Thomas
Reality is based on information, on a sacred narrative; and Valis generates information . Valis is ipso facto the generator of reality, as are the genuine Christians, those who generate new information, for whatever reason . The sacred narrative on which reality is based (
