[ 16:72] Even if you believe in man's sinfulness, the doctrine of vicarious atonement makes no sense . The crucifixion story says ,
[ 16:74] I see in the crucifixion story the message
In my schema, revealed to me, punishment is one of the key words, tied to the key word sin.
Then, by my theory, the last thing we should do is imitate Christ's passion . It was to liberate us from this that he came: to relieve us of the belief that suffering is natural and somehow proves or is tied to sin.
My God—talk about Scanner being right on: the real purpose of Substance D is to create a slave labor force . Take the people who just want to play, give them poison candy
I really do have an adoptionist sense of one gaining God's approval (support) by certain decisive acts...which I see as one correctly solving intellectual/moral choice problems—i.e., going one way vs. the alternative ,
I feel that God takes note and is interested . That, most of all, he understands (what other people can't) and so is sympathetic (
In a sense I would even define God that way :
It goes back to my concept of him posing us a problem to solve . Naturally we're not to develop a solution
The theme of tears and love and guilt turned into innocence.
We are indeed down to essentials, and the kerygma agrees with the prophecy :
➊ It is bought by Christ's blood being shed . Blood = tears, somehow (the Eucharist).
[ 16:109] Will Durant says ,
If there is indeed an evolutionary sequence, then my 3-74 experience is of a modern sort—of recent origin, and not comprehensible to the earlier religious types . I read his entry on Quakers, and their experience is mine.
he was among that minority of men, chosen by God before the creation, to receive his grace and eternal bliss.
So it can be said that we are in Christ ➊, and Christ is in us ➌ . This is a sacred mystery, how that which is macrocosmic and outside us can also be smaller
[ 38:22] I conceive the brain as rapidly growing, evolving and changing—and Rome as inert . Rome is always the same: Rome in USA 1974, in Tears and in c. A.D. 45 is unchanged . What it was it is, and what it is it will be . But in contrast the brain began c. A.D. 45 (time of Acts
Rome, the BIP, constantly repeats; like a psychotic human mind, nothing new ever comes into it . So in a real sense it is dead; more precisely it is a reflex system of some kind, recirculating forever one (?) thought (?) warped into an orbitting circle—it has us . But the brain breaks that hold (Salvation
Thus the brain sponsored the leaderless revolution
The authorities did not understand—at all guess—what confronted them . They had inaccurate, very inaccurate, intimations of a coordinating group . They must have succeeded in discerning a pattern (of coordination); i.e., the results but not the cause (source). They saw revolution; they saw the anti-establishment counterculture articulations (voices) and plotted correctly a synchronization, but could not account for it, despite the efforts of the police . Who were the leaders of this revolution? They had killed all the leaders, and it made no difference: the psyche or psychoi of the leaders lived on—literally . Impossible! (For instance, in 3-74 and on I toyed with the idea, for really quite a while, that it was Jim Pike who had come across
Timeo . What are we dealing with? I'd hate to have tried to kill it, like they
[ 38:24] The voice: plenary meant I looked it up.
This model (brain-mind) is a good one for my understanding of 3-74 . I keep hypostatizing Zebra as God or Noös, and now as brain . But we are the [physical] brain [components]. The plasmatic entity I saw which I called Zebra must have been the analog for the electrical discharges constantly moving through neural fibers—i.e., throughout the brain itself . Those electrical impulses are the life of the brain: its activity . So my brain, made up of millions of cells, in billions of [electrical] combinations, became one station (cell) in (of) a larger brain, linked to other cells
[ 38:29] I reason, now: if info can be transmitted to me, I must have some function; memory storage? No—I suppose it's my writing . This certainly explains the Acts Felix King
[ 38:31] What are we/am I? The brain overthrew the conspirators
( 4) We are only subliminally aware of these messages; they are latent.
( 9) It is probably rare for the psyche of the brain to actually surface in a cell (an individual human) as it did with me in 3-74, but to protect its frontiers it must now and then epiphanize . Especially when problem-solving is required beyond the capacity of the cell
( 10) What I called Zebra
( 11) The brain can be regarded as an entity (unitary) within our species, and not detected, even by its own cells.
( 12) It may very well provide immortality by incorporating dead
( 14) It was known to the early Christians as the Paraclete, John
( 15) By this I deduce that Christ was its initial form here, giving way to the Floating Crap Game
( 17) So for what it's worth, He is here with us, but as St. Teresa of Avila said ,
Christ now has no body but yours.
( 21) Unfortunately, these people have been woven by the magnet
( 23) The book of Acts describes the first manifesting of the brain, at Pentecost.62 Thus Acts is the only written account of the brain's existence, and so is unique and important . It so to speak is a verbal analog of the innermost core of the brain . Outside of Acts ,
( 24) It is possible that an unbroken chain of true Christians is linked through time back to Acts
( 26) It is benign: mankind's tutelary spirit freeing us from the warping tug of the magnet.
( 27) The magnet
( 28) Perhaps the brain pursued it . Using another set of terms, the magnet
( 30) Both the magnet and the brain, then, are transtemporal constants, since the moment of the brain's arrival (the time of Acts
( 31) In the crucifixion, the brain as Christ sacrificed itself in order to promote new life for us . By turning itself into the distributed brain it became camouflaged at the time of Acts
( 32) It bears some relation to our creator . This is why it cares so much about us and our enslaved condition . (For example, the magnet transmits die messages
( 33) In connection with these die messages
( 36) The warped slaves of the magnet who by and large control positions of power in this world (by virtue of the magnet) do not view the cells of the brain as benign and viable, but rather as (1) unpredictable; (2) revolutionary; (3) dangerous; (4) strange; (5) immoral and uncontrolled; (6) different; (7) hostile to stability . By which is meant conformity to the magnet's tug . They may even be viewed as invaders, responsive to an invisible source—which they are . They have become
( 38) Let me explain why I depict the brain as a
It does not organize the same cells constantly, but perpetually as a process releases certain cells at each instant and incorporates others . So a given cell (human) can at one time be part of the brain (and not know it) and be outside it at another . The psyche of the brain, of course, is a constant . So the Qs :
are meaningless . Thus there is no way the brain can be destroyed, let alone discerned . A cell of it, for instance, has no knowledge of other cells, or of what will be caused by the psyche to do—or why, when it will be utilized, when dropped out, etc . This is a very superior life form; like Ubik it is everywhere but not in any one spot; it uses human media of communication—it cannot be detected or destroyed, and since we are living in spurious time generated by the magnet anyhow, the brain can proceed as slowly as it wishes to achieve its goals . When the goals are accomplished it will obliterate the prolonged spurious time and reveal the world of Acts to us as our real world . In a very real sense the brain and its psyche have never left the time and place of Acts ,
( 39) If we could see a speeded-up file of world history of the last 2,000 years—run by us in say 5 minutes—we'd see an oscillation (palintropos) of blow and counter blow between the brain and the magnet . We would see millions of humans organized into the brain and millions of humans taken over by the tug of the magnet, warped into a forever dead orbit—like the Persus 9 in Maze . Circling a dead sun eternally . The brain would appear as a patch or blob of light; the magnet black: Yang and Yin . The landscape would remain constant: that of Acts . We would see the light (i.e., the brain) pulsate, as if breathing . With each cycle of respiration it as an organism would show visible growth . The black magnet stays fixed, since it is dead . If we could see ahead into the future we would finally see a killer blow delivered by the growing pulsating brain to the magnet, and the palintropos dialectic would end . Only the brain, incorporating every living human (as well as the physically dead) would exist . Even the landscape would disappear . Just a sheet of white light would extend everywhere . It would be as if the brain had reached critical mass and detonated . The magnet is well aware of the direction of this process; it has reason to regard the brain as dangerous, foreign Fremd Acts is a verbal analog of the brain, of the innermost core of the brain, outside of Acts there is no written analog of the brain . Thus Acts
Whatever theory I come up with re 3-74 ,
