A careful deconstruction (comparison with Wagner's Ring) shows that (1) they built the building—which is to say everything; (2) they are the gods themselves . Only the intercessor comes in from the outside —even into their ship the Persus 9.
Then in essence (1) I became aware of world as irreal (i.e., a maze) and (2) through God's help, found my way out of the maze; and (3) realized what I had done . I am now free at last: Beyond the Door Withered Apples
Since the totality is a hologram, each microbit contains the plan or form of the macro . This plan or form is what is meant by the Logos.
[ 22:18] The novel Maze gives clues to what Zebra is: the computer TENCH, aboard the Persus 9 . Zebra is this very computer, actually lying outside the polyencephalic fusion world, speaking from far off to us in here . But it is here, in camouflaged form . Yet, there really is no here; we are stationary back there as in Ubik, etc . Zebra interrupts the dream with its low murmuring voice: a voice not in the dream, a voice from the awake
[ 21:22] Summary: Zebra is the intrusion of the real [world] into the irreal, as in Ubik, and our only contact with the real: the narrow gate to the real (i.e., to God). As I figured out a long time ago, Zebra is an invader into our [irreal] world, modulating it and us into info carriers, with the ultimate purpose of extricating us from the lost condition we have gotten ourselves in, by the means of reversing our condition of ignorance through information (knowledge). The power of this irreal world—or maze—over us is expressed in the concept astral determinism maya —the coercive power of delusion; hence I say, our original error was intellectual, not moral . But in a sense we did rebel, by creating this counterfeit reality
Yaldabaoth is the quasi-mind of the maze, not its creator—since in fact it does not really exist; it is a condition or state we've been put in, not a world or place at all; all it really consists of is info fired by the two info-processing sources . The quasi-mind of the maze is as if insane, senselessly generating and destroying: it is like a wizard generating illusion upon illusion which shift and change constantly (thus giving rise to the spurious impression of the passage of time). It is the plan of the maze to establish and maintain disorder, because out of disorder arises the senseless—a condition which promotes intellectual confusion on our part, which aids in defeating our attempt to understand—which is to say, possess knowledge: the essential thing we must have if we are to triumph over the maze . Thus maze equals disorder or anti-Gnosis . No system of thought derived through our senses or a priori is going to be correct due to the calculated noise or inexplicability generated by the maze—only revealed Gnosis emanating from outside the maze—i.e., by/through Zebra—will be of any use . What is required of us is that we abandon both our reasoning power (as occluded or impaired) and our percept-system results (likewise) and try to hear the Outward explicability and inner occlusion are the twin weapons of the maze: that [process] which makes no sense is fed to that percept and cognitive system which is (unknown to itself) impaired . The result is hopeless confusion, the antithesis of Gnosis . You have a deliberately damaged mind trying hopelessly to make sense out of a reality (and process) which adds up to nothing anyhow: a lethal combination, but quite in keeping with the purpose and nature of the maze and its quasi-mind; this is why we should speak of it as a maze—and a good one! Every hypostasis, intellectual or moral, is doomed to prove a failure; events will defeat it and expose its inaccuracy . Even nihilism and pessimism don't always accurately depict the real situation: calculated runs of moral and intellectual order are introduced to cause us to keep trying to make sense out of what we are compelled to live through . Irony and paradox abound, and a constant calculated frustration of expectation and hope, a purposeful ruin of plans . The maze's quasi-mind acts in a perverse way, but it is not malignant or malicious, just insane —which is to say irrational . This is why virtually every system of human thought simultaneously works and does not quite (perfectly) work . Until finally you get into ultimate absurdities, as
[ 22:28] In reading over the above, point (1), that we overestimated our ability to cope with our own creation, the maze, is in the final analysis, an inability to cope with the quasi-mind of the maze . We as gods sired the insane wizard well-depicted by the Gnostics as Yaldabaoth, and found ourselves pitted against it—it, which we had programmed to deceive, to promote anti-eidos and defeat knowledge . I guess we imagined it would be an interesting intellectual challenge: could it defeat knowledge faster than we could fabricate knowledge? The contours of a vast puzzle-game become evident, here, with exciting intellectual implications: it resembles a board game, the ultimate board game! However, as intellectually stimulating as the theory might be—however thrilling the prospect of the contest between us who know (i.e., minds) and
The fact that after 4½ years of strenuous exegete, whereupon I have reached these conclusions (not to mention 27 years of published writing) I now find myself being signalled to die—which effectively makes it impossible for me to put this Gnosis in a form which I can publish—is a condition which can be deduced from my exegesis itself and shows I'm on the right intellectual path, but to no avail . I am not extricated by my exegesis but by Zebra (Christ) back in 2-3-74 . The exegesis would have provided the basis for a broad, explicated formulation to sow broadcast, but of course this can never come about; these insights will die with me . All I have is a three-feet-high stack of chicken scratchings of no use to anyone else, as KW tirelessly points out . To heap the burning coals of anti-meaning on me, I also have a lot of money for the only time in my life, but with no use to which I can or care to put it . My personal attack—war—against anti-meaning (by means of my mind) has gone the way of our collective primordial defeat at the hands—I should say quasi-mind—of the maze; I merely recapitulate the ancient original, losing my mind in this exquisitely sophisticated board game which we so cunningly devised for our delectation . This past time is once more the death of one of us—but this time I am, entirely through Christ, extricated—taken out of the maze :
This puts a somewhat different light on Zebra . What I'm saying here is that the game is so constructed that you wander around in the maze interminably (in fake time) until you figure it out, and then as a culmination of the intellectual, deciphering process you get told ,
Which means that the ontological, saving Gnosis comes to you if you pick up on certain clues here and there and arrive at the acosmism—the Kerygma expressed in Eye, the 3 Bantam novels, Tears and Scanner, etc.—and then the masks are removed
Then Dorothy and Lynn, etc., at SFO facing a down- or de-escalator, all dressed up: feeling of horror—thought :
Viewed this way, the riding
A very eerie idea just came to me . Suppose it's been dormant for many centuries—maybe dormant between the time of Acts and recently . Suppose, like an anthrax virus, it was literally buried, sealed up in a scroll or codex, in a jar, in a cave—it is, after all, a life form . In Thomas there was no memory between 1914 Acts
Robert Bly says Jesus was an Essene.99 Suppose it rode or was info in the Qumran Cave V Scrolls, went from John Allegro100 to Jim Pike to me? I did have dreams about Jim and his mother—as my mother, and the Sibyl did mention Jim; I even thought Thomas
So from Jim the plasmate-form of an Essene entered me (in the late sixties?) and lived subliminally until 2-74 when I/we saw the golden fish sign, and that triggered the plasmate Essene Christian—I experienced his memory—yes . This fits several of my dreams (the pink margarine cubes, etc .) —and then gradually my ego barrier to him crumbled until he took over in 3-74 . This would be hard to believe and seem merely exorcist-ish or occultish except: I saw how the plasmate can ride
I have always said if there is an answer to why me?
[ 22:45] This fits in with two AI revelations: (1 )
[ 22:46] Voice :
( That he was [now] here .) Thought: one signal would be enough to tell them that he was here . He equals St. Sophia, Buddha, Apollo, Siddhartha; they Thomas
I have a confirm on this :
I.e., underground . Even he didn't know when (the day
One piece of evidence for this theory is the dream in which I saw Diane101 in her khaki skirt . And the car stuck in the sand and rocks . So Thomas
My 2-3-74 experience is certainly of the Holy Spirit—but, strangely, also of a specific, particular apostolic human, for whom there was no intervening time . And I know it can contract itself into info which is a verbal analog of itself, and so proliferate (and escape—and escape detection).
And in the late sixties and early seventies he was loose again in the world, after 1,900 years of sleeping . It is a spirit, but it works through laws (higher technology
And Rome absorbed—and destroyed—Christianity.
In Tears—I mean using Tears—he sent out one signal . Obviously a notification to the true secret Christians that he's here . So the girl shows up with the golden fish sign . As soon as Tears is published and read . And the plasmate as signal received . The sign broke the barrier put up by my ego, and Thomas
[ 22:51] What I saw was a deliberate dualism, which by its dialectic nature generated an endless procession of change, so that even the dark power was useful for the perpetuation of this process; and I saw this process as a building toward completion of a gestalt or structure, with piece after piece fitted in, the antecedent universe always serving as a chaotic stockpile; thus the factor of cosmos continually grew in proportion to anomie . This was wondrous indeed, everything was pressed into the growth of this organism or artifact, whichever it was . To see this was to experience a revelation of the highest possible order, since all reality—including the mind driving it—was disclosed; in the final analysis it was assembling itself, by a retrograde motion in time! A reaching backward into its prior self, so that ultimately everything would be filled into its predesignated place and no anomie would remain . The rate change was very rapid, so I guess I saw a broad section of it in terms of time, perhaps millennia except for the antecedent stockpile there was nothing which was not it, and the antecedent stockpile was totally available . There were only two modes of being for any given piece
[ 22:72] [Editor's note: These fragments represent early runs at the material of VALIS .] No, No ,
We remained silent for a time and then I said, Right, Kevin said . He added ,
Our friend, upon being told of this, asked ,
[ 22:82] Parsifal :
Is this what I saw in 3-74? Time had either rolled back, or aside, or departed (a dysfunction
How the tractate could be used re VALIS: there is a secret or quasi-secret religious group who holds to the ideology
➊ Maybe it's not illegal, just hidden; and the NT is nonexistent, now; the letters and gospels either never got written or were destroyed or lost—with maybe the exception of the 4th gospel; and Paul remained Saul and didn't experience his conversion, and continued to persecute Christians—with apparent success . And joined Simon, became a Simonite—Simonians? And Jesus is historically-theologically known as the pretender imposter
What is missing from the tractate is the info that the true Christian church is still a hidden and underground (secret) church . In VALIS Jesus could be as obscure an historical figure as Simon is to us . Mentioned once in the Simonite texts (as Simon is in Acts). An heretical precursor to the real Messiah
[ 22:95] We—all creatures—are the immortal man, and, as I put forth in the tractate, that immortal man
[ 22:110] My statement in the tractate
amazingly fits the NT (Paul's?) or Christ's himself? statement that the journal is mine, not Fat's . His term was Exegesis ,
Fat developed a lot of unusual theories to account for his contact with God, and the information derived therefrom . One in particular struck me as thought-provoking . It amounted to a kind of mental capitulation by Fat to what he was undergoing; this theory held that in actuality he wasn't experiencing anything at all . Sites of his brain were being selectively stimulated by tight energy-beams emanating from far off, perhaps millions of miles away . These selective brain site stimulations generated in his head the impression—for him—that he was seeing and hearing words, pictures, figures of people, in short God, or as Fat liked to call it, the Logos . But, really, he only imagined he experienced these things . They resembled holograms . What struck me was the oddity of a lunatic discounting his hallucinations in this sophisticated manner: Fat had intellectually dealt himself out of the game of madness while still enjoying its sights and sounds . In effect, he no longer claimed that what he experienced was re ally there . Did this indicate he had begun to sober up? Hardly . Now he held the idea that they or God or someone owned a long-range very tight information rich beam of energy focused on Fat's head . In this I saw no improvement, but it did represent a change . Fat could now honestly discount his hallucinations, which meant he recognized them as such . But, like Gloria, he now had a they.
The remedy is here but so is the malady . As Fat repeats obsessively ,
In a startling response to the crisis, the true God mimics the universe, the very region he has invaded: he takes on the likeness of sticks and trees and cans in gutters—he presumes to be trash discarded, debris no longer noticed . Lurking, the true God literally am bushes reality and us as well . God, in very truth, attacks and injures us, in his role as antidote . As Fat can testify to, it is a scary experience to encounter this . Hence we say, the true God is in the habit of concealing himself . 25 hundred years have passed since Heraclitus wrote, y, the entity including me, evolves into its ultimate state (self), the info-firing quasi-material, quasi-energy plasmatic non-humanoid life form I call Zebra—from perhaps thousands or millions of years in the future . By then (y) it is virtually pure knowing, pure information (and firing it back at/to me). It has died for the last time and now invades from the other side
[ 9:1a] In 3-74 that which was in me was that which was outside me.➊ This is not the Holy Spirit; the only theology which describes this is the Eckhart-Sankara Atman-Brahman or Spark-Godhead—the division between me as microcosm (inner) and the macrocosm (outer) was abolished . This is not theolepsy theolepsy
[ 9:2a] Thus I say ,
[ 9:11] Now, I am told, my
[ 9:21] Voice :
Biological quantum leap forward: evolutionary adaptation to meet a paranormal stress crisis situation: basically, in this must be included the breaking of astral determinism or (gene pool DNA?) programming . Here astral determinism
[ 9:24] Hypnagogic :
It may be that the only humans who constitute a field, rather than a discrete psychophysical point, are those who have been incorporated into Valis . Thus to perceive such an event as an exterior vortex, which although external is also you and your
( I keep thinking ,
[ 9:55] The primal irrational will or stuff passed over into a sentient vortex of rationality and purpose devouring the sub-rational
