Nearest at hand . The cosmic is no more ultimate.
The dialectic is the yin-yang and Tao.
Once you have the idea that
Our world contains TMITHC which contains our world which contains TMITHC which contains our world which contains TMITHC which contains.... I set up another paradox flip-flop and another Acts contains (is) our world (i.e., our world is really Acts). But in our world is a book, a novel, which contains a fictional world which is (contains) Acts . Acts can be retrieved in microform from a novel within our world; i.e., Acts can be derived from our world in microform . (Acts in microform . But Acts
Put another way, Acts is a book (part) within our world (whole). But our world (part) is contained within Acts
I regard the two-proposition formulation about
G-2 has created a doomsday device, an artificial life form . I mention ,
I am with G-2 (which is my code for U.S. [Army] intelligence). A man named Jim shows me the doomsday device . And then quickly runs upstairs . Analysis: doomsday device is what I call Valis . It is a construct invented by humans, specifically U.S. military intelligence . Tears shows traces of its cerebration, so KGB contacted me; this was G-2's purpose in putting the material in Tears, a ruse to draw them out and trap them . It worked . Hence my programming to report at once to G-2
[ 42:39] Hypnopompic: very radical conclusions seemed to include an intuition that reality could be tricked (so to speak) into contradicting itself; viz: if it assumes a perpetually obliging form for the purpose of simulating the semblance of verisimilitude, then via the right approach this very obliging quality can be turned against it in terms of continuity, its continuity, since it cannot withhold its obliging or mimicking quality . All you need do is totally believe that pattern x x
A: My ego was destroyed, so syntonic
Q: Oh? High
A: Mixed or borderline
Q: Were my dissociated
Q: That is an oxymoron . A
[ 44:68] Hypnagogic 5:30 A.M. voice :
We have adopted you because you adopted others—e.g., the children at Covenant House.
Ach! This is the Acts material, the living information I saw: the plasmate . Acts (and probably other parts of the Bible) is/are alive and can replicate . Perhaps Acts
I am sure I am on the right path here . A whole reality of names or living words (cf . Joint) is pointed to . Yes, but Acts pre-existential being ,
[ 44:82] Is not the Empire a (Jungian) ossified (iron) complex invaded by a metabolic toxin which will dissolve it? Isn't this really a mind which is deranged—i.e., frozen into an overvalent complex, so that real time has ceased? Isn't this my primary contention? This is the phagocytosis of the heavy metal particle which I envisioned . Ossified complex, stuck time, the invader? And Tears depicts the ossified complex as a society spanning 2,000 years . This is precisely it: no time has passed since Acts
[ 44:143] Voice 4:30 A.M. :
—meaning me . Obviously referring to 3-74 . But look what this says; not just that I died, but that I returned to life!
Born in God, died in Christ, was born again in the Holy Spirit.
[ 44:144] That's why when loaded I always write :
ich bin der Retter.
22 Christ took my place in 3-74 . Then Thomas
[ 45:226] At the moment of (Christ's) death the world melts in a fabulous way, taking on the life of Christ in macroform . This is the resurrected Christ, now cosmic . (It resembles Ubik; it is, he is, everywhere .) Meanwhile the person who is renewed lives on past his fated moment of death . Astral determinism, what Paul calls the old Law planetary powers has/have been cheated of their victim due to the surrogative divine intervention of God (Christ) 23; again they fell for the
hook of divinity hidden in the bait of humanity.
This is the mechanism by which Christianity successfully accomplishes what all the Greco-Roman mystery religions sought for and promised: the escape by the initiate from astral determinism or untimely death . (It's probably a death strip in the DNA programmed into us . It probably has a bio-chemical clock basis .) In a sense Christ can be conceived of as a super surgeon or doctor attacking (so to speak) the death strip by absorbing its firings himself . At the time the death strip in the DNA is activated, there are two psychoi in the brain side by side, one having entered adventitiously and the strip being tropic to the old or historical of the two psychoi . It kills it and not the other—where the center of consciousness (the soul?) is now located, having been laterally transferred deftly almost (?) by a sort of advanced technology . The new psyche is exempt from the power of the death strip . Gradually the new psyche accommodates to the brain and memories of the original psyche, and the disruption fades as personality continuity resumes . No one really dies; Christ is resurrected and the person involved lives on, now minus a death strip . He can be killed but not on cue (i.e., schedule). Meanwhile he retains a mental symbiosis with his brother
I have entered into a vast spiritual quest and adventure to understand the ways of God centering around the mystery of the suffering of the innocent and the need to understand how it can be . (This quest is by no means accomplished .) (But at least I am able to state the problem . It is epitomized in my
story! What evil is and how it is to be combatted—note combatted understood.
What must be realized is that the normal bipolarization of the divine and the trash is a partial madness . To reintegrate them is actual sanity . When reintegrated the two realms turn out to form a language :
[ 46:432] Q: Why are so many—very many—of the elements of 2-3-74 found in my corpus of writing? A: The world
Therefore there is a cosmic divine mind in me, which generates the writing and was the world I inhabited in 3-74 . Therefore the basis of my mind, first experienced by me in 3-74, is deity . I will admit to projection . What I will not admit to is mere subconscious . This was Hagia Sophia herself—projected as world . It was holy . It was beautiful . It was thousands of years old . So I am willing to locate Valis and all else of 3-74 as being in me (projected). But this was God-consciousness which woke up . * Then—who/what am I? When stoned I always write with total certitude ,
And of course this is what Jesus meant by
A: The real world is the Christian universe (and the secret revolutionary Christian underground) against the Empire . The antithetical interaction shows up in Tears—the Empire is clear; where is the Christian element? Would you believe Acts
Therefore Taverner has to be Paul (the persecuted church). By means of the grid . The Acts grid . The grid is essential . If Buckman is Felix Procurator you can infer by means of the Acts grid and only by means of the Acts
[ 46:458] Hypnogogic :
[ 47:617] Two systems of information intersecting one as set (Ahura Mazd
Expansion out of the prison: escape from the prison by extension, like an insect expanding out of his exoskeleton during/via his metamorphosis.
—half-life . The BIP as a sort of exoskeleton, hence a kind of rigid (iron) body . This is the
This is a radically different way of experiencing the self (microcosm) and reality (macrocosm). Memory and inner space . There is some relationship . Memory involves vastly augmented time which is then converted into space.
becomes a very large spatial volume, with the result that the past still exists—e.g., my seeing the world of Acts
[ 47:627] Therefore the hologram (reality) is in truth one huge volume of space with no time involved, in which all time periods onion
Time, then, is actually spatial expansion, layer upon layer . So the hologram is quite large—it is ubique; yes; here is the ur-significance of the word ubique uncanny one-way intrusion
[ 47:645] Ach . If you were geared to the slow time of the Christian urwelt, this phenomenal world would seem to spin by at an incredibly accelerated rate—exactly as time seemed to pass for me in 3-74! Events pass ultra fast if you are slowed down: the rise and fall of our societies are, to urwelt, like the lives of fruit flies: over in hours . Conversely, if you are geared to this phenomenal world, no change is seen in the urwelt . During one human lifetime nothing happens in it; it is still back at the time of Acts! If one of us caught a glimpse of it he'd see what seemed to be the distant past of this world, whereas in fact it is another world progressing at a different—very slow—rate . Now the meaning of this can be appreciated :
[ 47:649] I have it! When I slowed down to phase with the ultra-slow pace (time) of the urwelt, events (change processes) in this phenomenal world moved very fast in relation to me so that in effect I was shown stop-action photography of a vastly expanded present; as a result at this accelerated flow rate, this world exhibited the revealed, cosmological
( To this I add: my present time was thousands of years in extent and I saw world as hatched cuckoo egg within world evolving and assimilating and linking internally in greater and greater complexity, through a dialectic process with history as its arena: world within world and camouflaged—counterpart to myself, not alien to me but like me; what it was I was, except it was large and I was small . That means I am not a human being since it is not a human being; I, too, am a hatched cuckoo egg.
Then it didn't enter human history to save mankind: no—it had to, in order for it to function and evolve and grow more and more complex . It must make use of us and our history . Then this incarnation was indeed its plan from the beginning . Yes; Heidegger says with the early pre-Socratics, man had his becoming-being (Heraclitus' flux) combined, and this is what Logos
If I in 3-74 combined being and thinking (v. Heidegger) then I would encounter world as being-thinking unity as the pre-Socratics did (the Magdeburg hemispheres phenomenon). After all, the pre-Socratics were hylozoists . For them, that which thought was, and that which was thought . This draws God back to world; he is no longer otherworldly :
So in many ways
