) can be seen as latent in new information generated by selfunaware Christians; the sacred narrative Acts Superimposition
—paraphrase of [>].
[ 1:19] No time has passed, and, moreover, all change since Acts has to do only with accidents not substance . Reticulation and arborizing in a memory system; the real world, having been destroyed, exists only in God's memory, and this world remembered is Acts, and all changes since have been mere reticulating and arborizing as elaborations of a freeze frame.† Hence time is not real and space is not real . The real world is morphologically arranged, and that world is Acts
[ 1:23] The secret is to view something
and not as it is—overtly . Heraclitus' latent form
[ 1:24] Premise: things are inside out (but will at the Apocalypse assume their real shape). Therefore the right place to look for the Almighty is, e.g., in the trash in the alley . And for Satan: in vast cathedrals, etc . Through enantiodromia they will on that day assume their rightful shapes—the great reversal . The Jester in the tarot deck is the real King; the King card is the deranged one, the witless one . Ubik in its commercials and final theophany shows this reversal process . USA 1974 is really Rome c. 45 C.E . Christ is really here; so is the kingdom . I found my way into it once . The long path is the short path—ponderous books of philosophy won't help me; Burroughs' Junky will . That thieves and murderers 17th century poem of Herbert's will . Stone rejected by the builder; the edifice is discarded; the true edifice is invisible—disguised as rubble (plural constituents). That fly grooming himself—they (the divine powers) have to reveal the kingdom to you; you can never on your own pin it down . So to search at all is to miss the point . Tricks, paradox, illusion, magic, enantiodromia . The apparently harmless Xerox missive was my death warrant . The AI voice says the secret stolen has been successfully smuggled to me; I have it . But what is it? My worst book, Deus Irae, is my best . God talked to me through a Beatles tune (Strawberry Fields
You look at one spatiotemporal continuum and another spatiotemporal continuum and you see that they are one . They do not merely resemble each other nor are they just tangent . They are the same thing in terms of some underlying essence . The quantum leap in brain-function is when you go from thinking ,
I am saying ,
to people who are saying ,
In a way I feel really bitter: because I can't tell anyone or convince anyone of what I saw . I'm afraid Valis won't convince anyone . I feel like joining them and saying ,
There is no room in Christianity for reincarnation and no hierarchy of realms such as Plotinus describes and no anamnesis and meta-abstracting such as Plato describes . However, there is no mention or indication in Platonism, Neoplatonism or Pythagoras of a secret revolutionary Christian movement pitted against the Empire . As long as I pursued the Christian element I got nowhere in figuring out what happened in 2-3-74 and how it happened . I had been swamped by apostolic Christian material in terms of my identity, role and knowledge, but none of this explained what happened and how, unless I was willing to settle for
Therefore I must affirm Christianity—the authentic apostolic form—as my orientation, in fact my historic role, but it remains a matter of faith and personal identity; whether it is veridical I can't say . Philosophically and metaphysically, Platonism and Neoplatonism in its basic elements is verified; were it not true my experience of 2-3-74 could not have occurred . I might have discovered other Forms than the Black Iron Prison: what I call other narratives.
This goes a long way toward explaining the strange basic schism in me (which finds expression, for example, in Scanner, its basic plot). It explains my twin parallel opposing views of Christianity; on the one hand I feel myself to be a Christian and on the other I view Christians and Christianity with abhorrence and contempt . It would seem that half of me is devoted to the wisdom religions of classic Greece, which is why I enjoy the pre-Socratics so much; and yet another part of me is led back again and again to the NT.
Zwei Selle wohnen ach! in meiner Brust.
I think that just now by linking Plato's anamnesis and Form world with Dionysus and the greater mysteries, and the Christian Eucharist to Dionysus and the greater mysteries—which links Christian Eucharist to Plato's anamnesis and Form world—which renders the spatiotemporal world irreal, thus abolishing the power of astral determinism
The saying that is uttered in secret rites, to the effect that we men are in a sort of prison, and that one ought not to loose himself from it nor yet to run away, seems to me something great and not easy to see through; but this at least I think is well said, that it is the gods who care for us, and we men are one of the possessions of the gods.
( 2) Therefore I reversed the original Fall—which is doing much more than remembering—by anamnesis—the reality of the Form world, the universals . What I realized last night is that I as a soul splintered up in fragments through space and time, literally exploded through space and time, in incarnation after incarnation, my unity shattered . This is the weary wheel
[ 1:84] Probably the wisest view is to say: the truth—like the Self—is splintered up over thousands of miles and years; bits are found here and there, then and now, and must be re-collected; bits appear in the Greek naturalists, in Pythagoras, Plato, Parmenides, Heraclitus, Neoplatonism, Zoroastrianism, Gnosticism, Taoism, Mani, orthodox Christianity, Judaism, Brahmanism, Buddhism, Orphism, the other mystery religions . Each religion or philosophy or philosopher contains one or more bits, but the total system interweaves it into falsity, so each as a total system must be rejected, and none is to be accepted at the expense of all the others (e.g., I follow Mani
In one area the Evangelical Christians are correct: in regard to Bible prophecy . The Bible does contain archetypes that print out over and over again, and are—some of them—applicable to present-day times . (I need only recall Acts
Noös exploded (here in realm #4) is Noös banalized, as in the chapter headings in Ubik: Noös re-collected is as Ubik appears in the heading of the final chapter, no longer banalized, trivialized, debased into rubbish . This banalization is a measure of the Fall of this realm; and again it illustrates what I have remarked on: that things do not appear in this realm #4 as what they really are, that finally Christ will bring about what I call
If a gun were put to my head and I had to give one short answer as to what Valis was, I would say ,
And as to what happened in 3-74: the regulation of the Yin and the Yang, i.e., the dialectic, by the Tao; the Tao asserting itself as master of the dialectic that makes up our world-order of flux and strife . (
But also: Valis was my splintered self imploding
This is why I had the distinct and indubitable impression that my own earlier thought-contents were coming back to me in the form of world—e.g., Ubik and
The first space-time thing that returned to me was my most recent book, Tears, and the world (Acts
This is the surd I am left with after completing the metaphysical system of my exegesis: a surd . There is what the AI voice called
I cannot say that I have found moksa, enlightenment . I do not understand what I saw and what happened in 2-3-74 . Something helped me . Who? Oddly, although I don't know who I do know why (since the AI voice told me that). I chased after reality, and how far did I actually get?
About all I can see clearly is that 3-74 was a heroic act that consisted of the overcoming of fate.
So I felt as if another self had taken me over; my actions were disassociated ,
[ 1:121] Is the secret connected with time and the reversal of time? Cosmic resorption? I am right in my writing: reality is a series of Chinese boxes, a box within a box within a box, etc .: but a final point comes when you have Valis, but what or who Valis is I have no idea . The Tao, YHWH, cosmic Christ, Brahman, Shiva, Krishna, or a quantum mechanics phenomenon . Or ruah, the spirit of God breathing creation into existence out of nothing—ex nihilo—you finally wind up with: non-being—that is, not-is-real, and the is is only seeming, is not real . You open box after box and ascend the levels of being (esse, substantia, einai) and then you open the last one and it contains—nothing! And yet you're faced with the mystery or paradox that Ho On (for want of a better term) is actually right here and now, in the very trash at hand, not far away at all—the ultimate paradox in terms of your long search through level after level of being—he is at the initial least real (sic) level . You wind up back where you started, paradoxically . But now you know that this utterly worthless trash level—mere appearance—is somehow also Ho On, whom you seek.
The Buddha is a piece of toilet paper.
And in a way what is most paradoxical is that I said it all in Ubik years ago! So in a way my exegesis of 2-3-74 says only ,
I ask for 30 years, what is real? And in 2-3-74 I got my answer as if the universe—well, as if my question traveled across the whole universe and came back to me in the form of experienced answers...and what I wind up with after 6½ years of studying those experienced answers is: a surd . A perturbation in the reality field—an irregularity, a departure from the normal—a tugging or pulling or bending . And that is all . Not even the thing, the perturbing body itself; only its effects on
A: Heidegger says ,
To which I ask ,
The tug is real and the reality field tugged on isn't . So that which is genuinely real is pointed to by its effect on the reality field
[ 1:127] The perturbation in the reality field was not by me but by the Tao . Nonetheless I broke my own programming by a heroic act of will . Yes; our spatiotemporal aspects (what we take to be reality) are indeed our own prior thought formations coming back to us . Yes; anamnesis is recognizing them as such: which permits you to break their hold (programming) over you by (on your part) an act of (your) will . Doing something new—introducing one single new change—destroys their ossified nature and starts up real time, it causes a time perturbation, as if time were running backward; this may be due to one forcing the prior thought formations back into the past where they properly belong; it would seem to you, then, as if the future had broken in, moving retrograde in time . This future breaking in
[ 1:138] 4:30 A.M.: I was lying here thinking how Christ would show up in the alley and the weeds because that is where he is and things of daily life and world, and I asked myself ,
And I realized ,
I finally understand . This is what is meant by
One tiny tug sets a sequence of mounting, growing changes in motion, ending in massive (total?) enantiodromia: victory . Over world . Since all reality is one field the effects of the initial perturbation end only when the final enantiodromia occurs, and all the counters
[ 1:175] The fact that I wound up with Valis as a surd when I finished my first complete successful overview shows how scrupulous I was . It would have to be left over . Deity can't be fitted into a theoretical system; it is irreducible and stands alone . But at least that way I could focus on it as isolated—which paved the way for my total overview in which this surd was included but only as the absolute ,
I realized that it came into existence literally out of nothing, was pure arrangement and not the things arranged (acted upon). I visualized (conceived of) it as a breath on the weeds of the alley—then connected it to the
to enter the world; then, realizing that it is weak but irresistible, I saw it as the Tao and hence saw its relationship to the dialectic and mounting chains of events culminating in macroenantiodromia: the purpose of it breathing
[ 1:248] I would even be willing to argue that an experience such as mine (2-3-74) justifies the Fall in the sense of making it worth it due to the absolute joy generated by the re-collection and return . I know it was for me—all the tearful years were not only nullified; they were overbalanced by the bliss experienced in restoration . Whether my feelings in history could rightly be projected onto the deity I don't know; but if my system is right in all respects , 2-3-74 was the deity recovering its memory and identity, and so is representative—a sort of microcosm of the total deity's own travels, its journey . (I envision deity in dynamic process undergoing unfolding stages of self-knowledge .) Perhaps this is the ultimate price of the game: self-awareness, acquired through external
Have I had it backward? I've always said: I saw His Body camouflaged as the world . Maybe it's the other way . I saw how the pieces of the world fitted together to form his body—this was what I saw that I called Valis, externally . This is the same thing as I understood inwardly when I saw that the wise horn of the dialectic selected pieces of the antecedent universe, as a stockpile, and fitted the pieces together to form the macrometasomakosmos which was its own self, its own metasoma . Here seen both ways (externally as Valis and internally as an inner consciousness): world evolved into the Body of Christ; world as pieces that seen acting and operating together became—were now—Christ as cosmic body . So it is world first; or rather they, as plural pieces, are world . Then they come together so that the they becomes an it, one body made up of all the many objects and processes that were—that had formerly been—the world . The lower plural evolve into the higher unitary . This was one process seen two ways, seen inwardly and outwardly . Yet you could still say ,
But it isn't Christ's Body posing as world; it is world becoming—joining together to form—Christ's body . Again: it is a cosmic evolution . Not the higher invading the lower but the lower evolving into the higher, with pieces of world added element by element to complete and perfect this titanic body, a body so vast that I could only comprehend dimly enormous—infinite—volumes of space, space such as I had never conceived or apprehended before . Larger than the universe, which in comparison is merely finite . Limited . And all of it was alive and all of it thought . And the pieces didn't just happen to fit together; they didn't just haphazardly come together; Christ himself searched for the pieces, took the pieces, placed each piece of the world in place correctly, integrated, beautiful, a kosmos, a macrokosmos that was good, beautiful, pleasing and harmonious, where all the many parts that had been world interacted as one unity . * And yet absolutely in no way was this vast body anthropomorphic; it was not a human body . It was a permanent body that continually became more reticulated and arborized and complex and perfect, that had once been world . So my inner vision of the macrometasomakosmos formed out of the antecedent universe, and my external perception of Valis camouflaged
( 3) I was inside it, and saw its inner information-metabolism, what I call
The fact that the macrometasomakosmos is right here, made up of ordinary objects structured into a cohesive unity, changes my conception of it; I must now reappraise everything I've thought during the past six and a half years . I've missed the point all this time; I knew Valis was here, but I could not figure out where the macrometasomakosmos was—since I didn't realize that they—and what I call the second signal
God manifested himself to me as the infinite void; but it was not the abyss; it was the vault of heaven, with blue sky and wisps of white clouds . He was not some foreign God but the God of my fathers . He was loving and kind and he had personality . He said ,
