( Like a pope?) This seems to express pessimism, as if the agency, the viaduct, right now is severely limited . To me? A very narrow and small outlet indeed . Philip the first: perhaps the initial viaduct for the we to act through: a meager beginning, but still a beginning . Note the we, I . Ah—"living"reality; i.e., the only present-time outlet in the sense of living (being present) now . Rather than at another time . Also, have now have left us now could equal at this time :
could mean that others once in use, formerly available, fell through . Or: the now could be contrasted to the future, not the past, in which case only...now equals so far, but it will later improve, they (the we) could be losing ground or gaining ground; it is impossible to tell, but what can be told is, I think, that whoever Philip the first is, they are limited to him at present . Am I meant? The first points to this outlet as the start, not a falling off state of a previous, better process of outlet . So the first conveys a lot: it ties only now not to the past but to the future . Thus the first
So the sentence, so short, so laconic, opens up to mean ,
[ 3:38] Re the Bowie film,81 and the little boy on the raft floating toward England; the divine child won't be born, but rather smuggled in, like a cuckoo's egg in a host nest, disguised as a—human? Terrestrial? Evading Scotland Yard Albion
[ 3:46] My dream last night: Cabin, pills and copy of Planet Stories . Semi-conscious, I attempted to test out whether this dream world, so rich in detail, was generated by my mind . It was not . It didn't respond to my thoughts (e.g., I thought ,
but none appeared). The contents were not generated by me, but received by me . And the generator was deficient in generating detail beyond a certain point, the simulation fell short . But anyhow it was presented to me, adventitiously . It was as stubborn and unyielding as actual reality . Clearly, it emanated from the same source! But either push or pull was missing . Anyhow, here I am again, dreaming about written pages (and which refer to me). The title of the story was :
an obvious combination of Wub Wub Vug have in common? Both are alien life forms which enter and take over a human host by an exchange of mental contents (as in human is) or simply impersonate humans—look like them through illusion-generation . This was an updated issue of Planet Stories, and it was divided into two parts, and was coming apart . The first, Wub, seemed more hinted at—i.e., indicated: exchange of inner contents, but Vug
So maybe my matrix immortal self isn't human, but another life form from elsewhere albemuth
Thomas indeed came from the stars originally (he must have first wubized revoke Recant
And even with Heraclitus in his maxim that
[ 3:80] This explicates a motive as to why we ourselves would blind ourselves to the true situation, the world of the BIP, the Empire, Acts.
[ 19:1] An incredibly eerie thought came to me just now after reading over a typed page in which I describe the BIP occluding us in such a way that we can't (even) tell we are occluded ;
[ 19:2] We are in a Palmer Eldritch no-real-elapsed-time-passage
[ 19:24] I saw the word artist turn into the word Christ
I think I've solved it . Initial realization: The BIP is a vast complex life form (organism) which protects itself by inducing a negative hallucination of it . Muddled thinking, loss of faculties and perception (as a protective mechanism). It has come here . And because of its defensive devices we are not aware of it (level #1). Next: camouflaged Zebra follows it to destroy it . Camouflaged
It is interesting how effectively the impairment works . This is what so fascinated me in 71/72, which I explored in Scanner (which book I now view as the Key Book in the sequence). Axiomatically, if you derange the brain in precise ways, not only will it be deranged, but if you have affected precisely the correct circuits it will be unaware that it is impaired and so not seek to rectify the damage . It is as if the immune system has failed to detect an invader, a pathenogen (shades of William Burroughs: a criminal virus!). Yes, the human brain has been invaded, and once invaded, is occluded to the invasion and the damage resulting from the invasion; it has now become an instrument for the pathenogen: it winds up serving it as its slave, and thus the heavy metal speck
( 5) Ubik: The salvific entity per se, by name and how its Pansophiaistic
( 6) Do Androids: A vital theme, that of Mercer88 and his reality through some sort of mystic identification via empathy . The role of animals . The tomb world . The fakeness of fakeness: my 2 slit Impostor Faith of ...
( 9) Every other relevant story and novel, from Joint to Remember Wholesale, Electric Ant, Retreat Syndrome ,
➊ And (10) Eye: Subjective private worlds . And, as in
Scanner is the weary final point: our minds are fucked up . It isn't just a case of pseudo worlds . This links with (8),
But Tears and Scanner are crucial in a special sense, because the fictional or phantastic element is virtually lacking; they are obviously semi mimetic, especially Scanner which is explicitly stated to have happened, and in a sense not fiction at all . Does this book, then, seem to say ,
➊ Well, a very sophisticated theology might be erected on this
single underlying Brahman . I can't totally dismiss it; I like paradoxes . He deludes us, and he brings lucidity to us—maybe the two are one and the same: the secret partnership
Thus, as perfectly epitomized in the Ubik commercials, he can exist (be) at any trashy layer—sincerely—he wants to be, in any trashy form . But in the end, he remembers (as witness the ad
Zebra = Christ . Christ = God . Thomas = Zebra . I = Thomas (for equals is
I was invaded (theolepsy) by Christ, all right . But as I say supra, it was I who remembered (being Thomas or Christ). So, like in Impostor
But my search in this world, in all worlds, is for my sister, my female counterpart whom I have lost—been separated from . Still, she exists, and finally I will be reunited with her . She is very close to me as the AI voice, the singing woman (psychopomp) and the sibyl . And, ultimately, as holy wisdom herself (v. Prv 8 :
[ 20:28] The belief that we are plural forms of God voluntarily descended to this prison world, voluntarily losing our memory, identity and supernatural powers (faculties), all of which can be regained through anamnesis (or, sometimes, the mystical conjunction) is one of the most radical religious views known in the West . But it is known . It is regarded as the great blasphemy: replication of the original sin mentioned in
90 and in Genesis . For this pride and aspiration (we are told by orthodoxy) our original fall in exile and punishment, our being taken from our home the garden land and put into the prison, was inflicted on us.
the Elohim say, and toss us down . Yet I have reason to believe that this ,
[ 20:36] Voice :
( This, Christ's voice, not the AI or Holy Spirit [
[ 20:80] This reporting back use of my writing, back to those outside, stating conditions here and asking for help, fits with the
dream: sneaked in here, camouflaged, from outside: cuckoo's egg
[ 21:1] Kerygma understood as of October 18 , 1978: In Stigmata, Ubik and Maze they are in an irreal world (Lem's paradigm). It is stipulated in Stigmata that no time passes, and this is implicit in Maze (and could be true in Ubik). In Tears the actual world is shown, the world of Acts, Rome c. A.D. 45 . In Scanner the cause of our being unable to reality-test is shown to be a percept-system toxicity or damage, anyhow an inner occlusion deliberately induced by a drug or drug-like substance (which collates with the master magician in Stigmata) administering a drug to people which puts them forever in this irreal world where no time passes—a world they can't tell isn't real . (In Maze two additional points are made: [1] false memories; and [2] negative hallucinations on a mass basis; rather than experiencing what is real, something which is actually there is not experienced .) Thus in those five novels virtually the complete story is shown, especially if one can determine from internal evidence that the world of actuality presented in Tears is the time and place of Acts . The nature of the entity which seeks to rescue us is given in Ubik, and is called—by itself—"the Word ,"i.e., Christ or the Logos . It is breaking through
one way, uncannily manifesting itself in ways not syntonic to the false world they imagine they're living in . This very experience precisely happened to me in 2-3-74, indicating that all five novels are literally true (I experienced the world of Tears or more accurately the world of Acts). I assumed that the purpose of my writing is to acquaint us with our situation, that my novels and stories function like the inbreaking messages in Ubik (such as the graffiti on the bathroom walls), but now I am given to understand that actually my writing is a report on the situation here outgoing—meant to leave our irreal world, to break out, not in, and acquaint the actual world (macrobrain) of our plight . They are then appeals for help, by a salvific entity which has invaded this our irreal world, an entity we can't perceive . It is the Paraclete, which has just now arrived for the first time, immediately following Christ's death and resurrection (it must be kept in mind that the real time is 45 A.D. and the real place is the Roman Empire). My writing is information traffic fed into the macrobrain, which continually processes such information . This information traffic between stations of the macrobrain is itself what we call the Logos.
Zebra equals Christ . Christ equals God . Thomas equals Zebra . I equal Thomas . (For equals is.
I see at once . Growth is absolutely halted . Time itself is stopped.
[ 21:10] 4:30 A.M. quasi-voice :
Next day . Have read the above . Boy, was I fucked up—I couldn't tell if it was the AI voice or me thinking it . But I got up again to write my absolute conviction as to what the quoted sentence meant: I wrote
But this is what the AI said within the last few weeks :
So? So :
—like under nitrous oxide I thought it, but I'd melded with Zebra, the other half of my homoplasmate syzygy . This goes with, Drawing
absolutely fits my stagnant pond vision . And the stagnation toxifies us (cf . Scanner). This fits with Thomas' abhorrence toward lead and aerosol sprays . And
equals draws us up out of . Then the world itself can't be saved . This fits in with Gnosticism . We are rescued off this dying (toxic, stagnant) world . But we're not literally lifted up: the voice said
which is important . Levels of ontological being or functioning may be involved . This world
But the stagnant pond dream, and Thomas' attitude toward lead and aerosol sprays, point to a literal toxicity of a literal planet (i.e., world = planet). Out of
could refer to an inner-outer bifurcation . We are in an irreal world based on unmoving fake time; out
No, damn it, it is like Ubik! The outside macrobrain is signaling us to wake up, we are like the characters in Eye, asleep—not on the floor of the bevatron—but while watching for Christ to return . We were made toxic—i.e., put into
