What I seem to have done is to eliminate the spiritual, in the sense of corporeal versus incorporeal (or spiritual), a distinction going back to Plato . I am talking about physical thought; so I am a monist; I am back to Parmenides . The concept of the spiritual in fact comes out of Parmenides' two water-tight compartments; i.e., things exist which the senses do not report . But I am saying that this statement
The E. of Phil . says of the Milesians that upon having banished anthropomorphic gods acting on the world they then had to conclude that the world was organic and alive and responsible for its own growth.32 This is precisely my position vis-à-vis Valis: nothing acts on Valis (Aristotle's unmoved mover). But I view Valis as being immanent but in conflict with an opposing principle or entity, and embedded at the core (ontologically) of reality, renewing and structuring it, making it progressively more complex (by what I call linking). This sounds like Pythagoras' Kosmos . But as I say on [>],
[ 47:687] I am slowly being overwhelmed with wild surmise . If we designate as error the concept of spiritual equals immaterial (as a misunderstanding of Parmenides), then we are led inexorably to
[ 47:696] This is world self-caused and self-generating and self-moved: what the Milesians sought as cause and origin of world . There is no external deity and nothing prior to world . This is God in Spinoza's sense . The pre-Socratics drew the right conclusions: if there was no adventitious deity to cause, control, drive and direct world, then world itself possessed sentient or quasi-sentient faculties and volition ,
What has happened is that religion—especially Christianity—restored the nonexistent adventitious anthropomorphic deity, the artificer-artifact model, so world was again not seen organically, as self-governing and alive and responsible for its own growth . Otherworldliness returned, and the Christians were
world; they were hostile to world and saw world as hostile to them . They located God in a mythical place called the pleroma . So world is depreciated and devalued and it is stripped of its life and volition . The work of the pre-Socratics is undone . God is not sought in world but over and against world, and he is sought in an alleged spiritual realm . Weird concepts such as original sin
[ 47:720] Two worlds with different space times must be posited, one within the other and the smaller one running at very high speed, and reached into from outside—although outside
It means a phase pulsation (flicker) mechanism to desynchronize you from the time rate of the high-speed little epi-world, to slow you from flux-perception to constant-perception . This is a technical matter: how it's done . Apparently we have an inner counterpart high-speed tape synchronized with the outer high-speed world; two tapes running in locked unison . If that is sundered by burning up the inner (idios) tape
[ 47:743] Hypnogogic thought :
[ 47:795] Hypnogogic :
Joy . Said by normal looking couple who remind me of Bill and June Black from Joint➊
! (Hypnogogic . )
Herded up.➋ Viz: into the final
What I'm more inclined to think, however, is based on canto 33 of Paradiso of the Commedia . Viz :
[ 48:828] Dream: all the churches controlled by Satanism, drawing their power from Satan himself . The 2nd coming is here: outside the churches; the true church is forming outside the church . Proof: the giving of massive gifts.
Homosexuality and black mass within the church . No room in the buildings given the truly Christian to perform services in . Enormous power of Satan, in and as the churches . breaking down
So she detects a highly intelligent macro life form camouflaged in our reality, and she and it exchange information . And she sees its blood
She is in syzygy with Valis, not with me—no . She is daughter to it . been Valis via an observer-participant-universe situation, as a sort of inner-outer field? Did she warp from plumb? And did the info about Chrissy come from her projected
[ 48:839] Hypnagogic: repeat of
heard, and this seen on page: YHWH—small letters in intertwined luminous gold and red, like the plasmate, and raised—like a glowing scarab . Synchronized with the word he.
Then the God who is instilling knowledge directly in me is none less than YHWH . And it is he who is alive
[ 48:842] I know that St. Sophia, the Buddha, Siddhartha and Apollo have been mentioned . So the stamp of the divine has been there from almost the start . And yet to see the tetragrammaton and have it connected (synchronized) with the audio he he is alive seems different and unique to me, and a matter of a higher—the highest—order . I guess to me the fact is that none of these other names allude to God in the sense that YHWH does . It is as if the others are attributes or cultural (i.e., man-made) hypostases, and YHWH is YHWH; viz: there is no God but God, i.e., the God who
the tetragrammaton . The others are names humans give to God; YHWH is the name by which God referred to himself when he conversed with Moses; it tells who he is . It is (v. the EB) his personal name and means
➊ I.e., the
So the 1st advent was a failure :
Satan pretends YHWH won; YHWH will cause to exist what Satan pretends (i.e., occludes us into believing) exists . It is a sort of trick played on Satan, but in deadly earnest: to make Satan's falsework
God turns the lie (God won) into the truth, and Satan is surprised; he didn't foresee this . Thus those most duped are most right, paradoxically; YHWH takes advantage of the irony and ambiguity to cause to be what seems to be; this is his fundamental power/nature . Thus salvation—not just of the individual but of creation—depends on being a guileless fool.
Id non est; atque credo.
What is the relationship between (1) and (2)? It would seem as if (2) is actually what is there, and not what we see that is included in (1). I.e., (1) raises a question that is answered by (2). Conversely, the purpose of (2) is shown us by (1). Upon seeing (1) and not (2), we would be left in the frightening dream world
It can be argued that there is a terrible risk to decompose world because if it is the only
you will be left with nonbeing; but in point of fact I wound up with Valis—so it was a net gain and not a loss (of reality). There was more reality behind
At all costs the world must be real; it must not betray its epiphenomenality except under certain exceptional circumstances, such as 2-3-74, since the consequences can be lethal (since they involve [1] non-being and [2] the revealing of non-being). Thus such a crisis engages the percipient in death, and, if all goes well, resurrection; but only the most extreme circumstances would call it forth; it is, in my opinion, the ultimate move by God, since in allowing world to dissolve (display non being) he replaces it with himself (pellucid theophany). Both self and world disappear for a moment . The seriousness of this can't be overstated—and the possible benefit (in terms of outcome experience of being by the creatorial percipient). It is like the bichlorides :
; but if used in a measured dose
[ 48:859] Then Stigmata and Faith
I.e., the first advent was a failure—I have to face that . Crucifixion was not the intended goal . There is no original sin and hence no vicarious atonement . Paul made it all up to explain why Jesus succeeded ,
Being dead, we can rise or sink . If we rise we can reach the one (Valis, Ubik, YHWH, the semplice lume41) (cf . Plotinus). What happens in Ubik is that Ubik at last throws off its multiple (multiplicity) disguises and reveals itself as the one which is everywhere in countless disguises . It can be found anywhere but in profane (trash) disguises; i.e., camouflaged . It pervades the reality that it has created
I have found a fundamental error in ancient mystical theory, not corrected until Plotinus: the Orphics and Plato believed that the descent and ascent of the soul was a spatial trajectory, past the planets to the stars—to and from . Aristotle believed in the sublunar and supralunar realms . Plotinus realized that the realms are not spatially different, but are levels of being outside time and space . This basic error shows up later on in imagining heaven as being in the sky: even with Schiller :
42 So transcendent deity is supposed to be remote either spatially or as if spatially, and immanent deity is near . Deity is considered outside the universe as if spatially far off and beyond the universe, the way an artisan is outside his artifact . This despite Plotinus and his concentric levels or rings of being . In The Commedia, they travel upward physically; i.e., spatially . God is not here; he is there (in the sky). This is corrected in Ubik . It all has to do with a confusion between the pleroma and the cylum, the latter being the vault of heaven . If this error is made, then there exists no conceptual framework to account for the sort of non-spatial rising to a superior—i.e., higher
Note: the dream world of 1126 Francisco St. draws on actual memory—my memory . Often I speculate that this (one) is drawn from memory constituents . Fed back to me . See, in the dream, the only reference point I have against which to check the veracity of the world is my memory, and the world is drawn from that very same memory, a better, unimpaired source of it than mine . So the reality will invariably hold up! It's like deciding something is real by comparing it with itself . So it's a fool-proof simulation, if based on that basis . So in a sense the more you reality test in the conventional way the more convincing it is—if it is contrived out of half-forgotten memories (not recognized as memory) and compared to memory itself—it can just spin out pseudoworld as if from a bottomless well . And the cut-off point is the same for world
[ 48:882a] That dream about the tall building: Alto Carmel
Dream of prophet called Elias.
Perhaps also significant is that it was Elijah who experienced the theophany of YHWH as the low murmuring voice
Consider dreaming . A sound in the real world occurs; the mind (yours) tries to work it in, to continue the dream; if it can't (your own mind!) the dream is aborted and you wake up . But the mind—yours—tries to prolong the dream . So the rasp is dysyntonic . Then perhaps some (?) stuff from beyond is worked in syntonically, and you don't wake . The rasp is intentionally dysyntonic . Another mind (Valis) is signaling you: Wacht auf! 48 This is half-life; not after death but before (true) birth, full complete birth; hence born again from above
Our dream world auto-produced . Risk . Shrinking from risk—hence retracting from knowing . Unity of opposites, BIP and PTG . High stakes . To try for PTG you risk BIP . Could go either way . Retreat from epistemological risk . Too dangerous . Heaven and hell; Purgatorio as compromise for the faint hearted . Not so much war as gamble . Like turning up the next card . Eagles :
[ 48:920] The turning point for me came when I saw 3 Women; then I understood, and soon saw the sacred tetragrammaton: received the crucial identifying revelation (in confirmation). When I saw 3 Women I knew, and at the deepest level; I was terror-stricken: either I believed in YHWH or there was das Nichts . Not the salvation of my individual soul and/or immortality was at stake but what I call
The deepest level of reality is YHWH . This is what is meant by creator.
Spinoza was a crucial help to me . This view (
My god—I seem to have become profoundly anti-Platonist! (cf . Beyond the Tragic Vision re Plato49). As if correcting the error Plato made vis-à-vis Parmenides (i.e., when I wrote :
So Plato (and to some degree Aristotle with his sublunar supralunar realms) made 2 fundamental inter-related errors which affected Christianity, but not ancient pre-Hellenistic Judaism . For the ancient Israelites, God was in nature firmly; he was in fact
( 1) My seeing Hebrew letters permutate until
