He made me aware, then, of the bliss that would come; it was infinite and sweet . He said ,
I thought a thought and then an infinite regression of theses and countertheses came into being . God said ,
I thought another explanation; again an infinite series of thoughts split off in dialectical antithetical interaction . God said ,
I thought, then, an infinite number of explanations, in succession, that explained 2-3-74; each single one of them yielded up an infinite progression of flip-flops, of thesis and antithesis, forever . Each time, God said ,
I tried for an infinite number of times; each time an infinite regress was set off and each time God said ,
Then he said ,
I tried forever . All led to an infinitude of regress, of the dialectic, of thesis, antithesis and new synthesis . Each time, God said ,
I tried forever . Always it ended with God saying ,
I saw, then, a Hebrew letter with many shafts, and all the shafts led to a common outlet; that outlet or conclusion was infinity . God said ,
I did; it led to an infinity of regress, of thesis and antithesis and new synthesis . Infinity . Infinity, An infinity? Try further ,
I said . And the infinite regress instantly flew into motion once more . Infinity ,
And, as soon as I said that, an infinite regress was set off . God said, Yes . Infinite . Infinity ,
And then the thought came to me instantly, Infinity ,
And at once an infinite regress was set off; perhaps I was God, and the God Infinity ,
I said, and another infinite regress was set off . Infinity, Infinity, God said . I was silent . Play again, Infinity, Play again . You rest? Play . Infinity, Play again . Infinity ,
( 4) The dialectic is God in combat with Satan and God always wins; winning me (as expressed in 11-17-80) is an example: Satan's delusions led me to God in the end (through the infinity route; viz: as God said ,
Thus my exegesis has been futile, has been delusion, and: has been a hell-chore, as I was beginning to realize, but God delivered me from it, from my own exegesis; and he pointed out the one truth in it: the infinity expressed in it was—but this was overlooked by Satan who does not possess absolute knowledge—a road to God, and did lead there; but only when I recognized the exegesis as futile and a hell-chore and delusion . Hence God permitted this deluding by Satan, knowing when it would end . So I wind up knowing a lot more about world—world as we will later experience it, the world-experience of the future; and I no longer suppose that I was discerning God, and realize that I was discerning world instead; and I was at last led to God . But not by my intellect, not by Gnosis, not by myself at all; it was due to God's initiative due to his loving-kindness; and what was proved was (once again) that all roads/ways/routes if pushed far enough lead to God . Hence (as I say) here is an example of how God the wise horn of the dialectic defeats its stupider foe inevitably in the end—this was an enantiodromia . It occurred when I realized that all that I had seen of God in 2-3-74 was a glint of color and a ripple of wind in the weeds of the alley, acting on reality; that Valis was not God but rather world (the reality field) perturbed (from beyond creation) by God; but this did not yield knowledge of God direct, but only by inference; and that in fact 2-3-74 was not a theophany, but was a more sophisticated experience of world: creation pulled through infinity by reaching the end of (exhausting) its creative/entropic splitting
I am left with this paradox, which Satan did not foresee; he saw only statement (1) and did not see how God could convert it into its mirror op posite through enantiodromia . Thus God works and wins within the fallen entropic creation of the disintegrating splitting dialectic to win us one and all in the end, by different routes . Thus the cosmic game between God and his adversary continues on; here was another victory by God; and in the end God will convert the dialectic itself into its opposite (through enantiodromia) and the game will end in God's victory and Satan's defeat, which God's victory vis-à-vis me echoes in microform . In a certain sense it can be said that God's victory consists in turning Satan's false creation—i.e., Satan's lies and delusion—into the real, which is exactly what I saw Valis doing: transmuting reality by transubstantiation into the real . Here is the secret and perpetual and ever-growing victory by God over his adversary as he (God) defeats him (Satan) again and again in the game they play—the cosmic dialectic that I saw . This is enantiodromia at its ultimate: the conversion of the irreal to the real . In my case it was the conversion of
into its mirror opposite :
My flight expressed by the phosphene graphics was a movement faster and faster through cosmogenic-entropic time, ending in exhaustion and then the enantiodromia of entropic time—which had reached infinite velocity and infinite fragmentation (splitting
My exegesis was entropic-cosmogenic time resuming, speeding up faster and faster, splitting (fragmenting) farther and farther . Finally, it, too, ended in infinite velocity and infinite fragmentation (creativity, expressed as ever newer and quicker theories); it ended in exhaustion and then the enantiodromia of entropic time—the dialectic of my thoughts—into negentropic time and another reintegration (this was 11-17-80). Only this time I did not see Valis, world, not God as I supposed . There was a theophany, and I was in the presence of God and God's loving-kindness; whereupon He explained everything to me . So events leading up to 3-74 and my experience with Valis had a parallel in the dialectic of my exegesis leading to 11-17-80 and the theophany of the Christian God of Love . The common ingredients of the two flights were: the cosmogenic-entropy splitting dialectic flight itself, until infinite velocity (time) and fragmentation (space) were reached, then exhaustion, then enantiodromia into negentropic time and freeze (reintegrational) of, so-to-speak, Prajapati ,
I think 3-74 was something I did vis-à-vis world that did not involve God . It involved world and information, but it was physical . I am the doubt; God allows it but it is satanic and rebellious . It is Satan the accuser of God's handiwork, Satan in me as rebel questioning reality under the guise of epistemological inquiry . It is hubris and intellectual arrogance yet God allowed it . It was—has been—blasphemy . World, which I questioned, came back at me in a subtle form, the subtle serpent, world as Valis which I then took to be real, and so fell even more under its domination than any average Christian is dominated by world; Valis is world as Satan's kingdom, subtly disguised in such a way as to fulfill my personal, individual preconceptions about God; this is why 3-74 resembled Ubik and Ubik; it was my own preconceptions and theology fed back at me to ratify
And I finally began to realize it; I prayed to be delivered from it . 3-74 was some vast enantiodromia in which I pulled reality inside-out, used up and hence froze time, saw the past (Acts
[ 1:301] Strange to say, when I look back to 11-17-80 what seems to me now the most proof that it really was God is not so much the bliss but the distinct individual personality (with its intense love); the distinctness, the uniqueness, the individuality of the personality . I could then and still can imagine what he would look like were he physically visible: an old man in a robe, very old, very dignified and wise, but, most of all, loving and kind and gentle (yet firm, very firm) —but not as he is usually pictured, not a patriarch in the usual sense, more, perhaps, like a magician in contrast, though, to (say) Gandolf; much darker: gray and brown and black, in shadow, yes: in shadow, like Michelangelo painted him in his creating Eve, yet not so, but close to it . Not heroic, as Michelangelo painted him, and not Hebrew . More supernatural . Really sort of physical, not spiritual.
He was not a type, like
[ 1:303] But there were elements about him not found in man or men as I have experienced them: specifically, infinite love (agape). Not agape greater than I have ever known but infinite—and from it stems absolute theodicy and, for us, infinite bliss . (I might also add that infinite kindness was contained in this infinite agape, but—I would think—that is due to the nature of agape; it cannot be separated from it, something I already knew about agape—v . my story notes for the Ballantine collection.79) Here I see my earliest—and really inadequate—definition of agape as worry
[ 1:309] It is a good thing that earlier in my exegesis I realized that I had a surd left over, because that surd is the God I experienced in 11-17-80; viz: when perturbed
I happened to read the EB article on Messianic Movements and am simply in shock . Everything revealed to me vis-à-vis 3-74 and the AI voice—it is Christian covert Messianic movement—it is—look; there is an invisible Christian Messianic movement or group or organization, what I used to call
—my experience in 3-74 (based on 2-74), with seeing Valis and all my dreams and the AI voice (e.g., second signal —cryptic information, the two-word cypher in Tears, and the Acts
There you have it.
Emphasis on the expected Second Coming introduced an element of messianic unrest in addition to questioning the validity of the present order; it was soon repudiated by the church as unspiritual ,
Hence VR, based on what the AI voice said, spoke of
[ 87:17] Today I've tried to work on my exegesis—as I've been doing for 6½ years . I can't do it . Why not? Because the love and personality that God showed me on 11-17-80 make any intellectual understanding seem unimportant—pale and weak and dry and faded . Never have I known anything like that love; and the personality—it was as distinct as any human personality . And this does not even consider the infinite bliss I felt . He answered all my questions anyhow; I have no more questions . To know God and God's love, and to understand how our suffering, our life here, will be justified—his gentle reproach :
Of one thing there is no doubt: this was the Judeo-Christian view/concept of God . Transcendent . With the life to come—the afterlife—as a reward, and this life here an ordeal, but one justified by the afterlife . And God of love bestowing infinite eternal bliss . * And God with distinct per sonality—which is not really the same thing as mere consciousness . Pantheism was by what he said ruled out . And he gave me to understand that (much as I had already figured out) I had experienced only traces of him here in this world; he is in his transcendence much more—infinitely more . Although he did not say it, I got the impression that—well, I was going to say ,
I just realized a common element I had missed that links the theophany of 3-74 to 11-17-80: in both cases my sense of evil, oppression and suffering was undermined drastically by an awareness of divine goodness, love, wisdom and power (cf . my Charles Platt interview :
I have it . Valis studies reason invading the irrational and arbitrary—this is Valis invading . The rational (reason, logic, justice—i.e., Valis) is higher than the irrational (ananke); this is all a Greek view, Greek and Roman . This is as far as my revelation had reached in 2-3-74: the dialectical combat between the irrational and the rational (ananke and noös, which is how I specifically and correctly express the combat in VALIS). But there is even one higher level, above reason: agapē (which doesn't show up in VALIS, i.e., in 2-3-74). Reason subdues the irrational: justice (Torah) subdues chaos! Order subdues chaos . But now—as of 11-17-80—I encounter something even higher: Jesus' God, Abba, whose essence is love
[ 87:37] One of my greatest realizations about him in 11-17-80 is that rather than just willing he also allows (in contrast to Spinoza :
). Everything that exists he either wills or allows . The magnitude of the freedom expressed by this (he allows) was a totally new conceptual experience to me . God's will was something I understood; in fact I had always viewed everything as due to his will . I had therefore no notion of human free will (in this I saw God and reality as Spinoza did). He allows independent being, which explains, perhaps, evil and disorder and that which is futile and wasteful, perverse and senseless . He shows infinite toleration due to his love and kindness; nonetheless this is not all; he also decrees (this is his will); a tension is created by his will and his permission, the result of which is an unfathomable mystery to a finite creature's intelligence; but God knows that every creature will within this mysterious bimodular reality—God's will and God's permission—find his way voluntarily back to God, however long and inefficient
Thus there is absolutely no problem in reconciling 2-3-74 with 11-17-80 . The first had to do with world and a
Notes to [>]. I did not start out seeing God—i.e. , 2-3-74—and
—futile exegesis of 2-3-74 based on the delusion that I had seen God . What actually happened was that I saw world in a highly superior way, but still world: it had something to do with entropic time and my exhausting entropic time through/in/by the dialectic until a massive enantiodromia occurred; I
In other words the—this—exegesis came before the theophany . The exegesis finally reached the conclusion that everything I had seen in 2-3-74 had to do with world (
( 3) Therefore, obligingly, the arch deluder served me up a further delusion (2-3-74) much more complex and sophisticated, based on my own particular preconceptions (anticipations, suppositions) as to what true reality would be like if you could see it . This is why 2-3-74 was a playback of my own mind to me (which every now and then I suspected, but I kept thinking ,
Okay, finally, in the exegesis, I realized that I had seen nothing of what I had in 2-3-74 assumed I had seen, which is to say, God . It was world, and world is by my own definition and analysis irreal and delusive . I was, without knowing it, even more embroiled in world than ever, than the most ordinary average person is! And I construe this as Satan's wiles, the a posteriori horn of the dialectic; God gave him free reign . Satan could not see where it was leading . But God with his a priori knowledge could . It led me to God in this way: on 11-17-80 God actually manifested himself and presented me with logical arguments and analysis as to how I could know I had this time in truth experienced him . His argument lay in one line: the argument to infinity . Would I accept an equation between God and infinity? (We had to agree on a premise, some postulate or other, some definition .) He said ,
And he was (I should remind myself) he who is customarily meant by the term God ,
Thus (to summarize) delusion—super sophisticated Satanic delusion— (i.e. , 2-3-74) led to a futile exegesis, a hell-chore (punishment that he allowed Satan to inflict on me) —but: okay.
Viz: the primary delusion (enchantment) of 2-3-74 led to the further delusion (second delusion) of the futile exegesis; I was totally trapped in Maya, led there by my own original suspicions—ironically! —that what we see is delusion! But: the second delusion—the exegesis—exhausted itself finally (
However, Satan had to generate a reality I'd accept, to reveal a great deal about reality to me . But he took the risk knowing I would confuse it with God . (Which I did .) Basically what he revealed is that my 10 volume meta-novel and its basic acosmism is correct: what we call reality is some kind of projected hologram and not real at all . We can be made to see anything and believe anything . Viz: in 2-3-74 I decomposed—desubstantialized reality, which is an epistemological victory, but then I completely believed in what I saw instead! I said ,
It was not . It was just a more sophisticated delusion . My years of skepticism turned into naïve credulity.
I said for over 6½ years, but in fact I did not . All I really saw was the projection machine and the projection broke down, whereupon it compensated by devising another and better projection—to which I should have said ,
